@c $Id$

@node Announce
@chapter Announcing Emacspeak Manual 2nd Edition As An Open Source Project


This is to announce the launch of a new open source project
to create a user manual for Emacspeak --an Emacs speech extension that
provides a complete audio desktop.

@menu
* Contributing: Contributing.
* Authoring Guidelines: Authoring Guidelines.
* Credits: Credits.
@end menu

@node Contributing
@section How To Contribute To This Manual

This manual is organized as a series of chapters, with each chapter in a
separate file.
If you feel capable of contributing to a specific section,
send out a message to the Emacspeak mailing list
@code{emacspeak@@cs.vassar.edu}.
You can then start adding content to a local copy of the chapter to
which you are contributing.
When you feel you have something to submit, mail out the file to the
emacspeak mailing list--
I'll integrate new content as it comes in.

@node Authoring Guidelines
@section Authoring Guidelines

For this manual to hang together and make sense to the new user at whom
it is targeted, contributors need to stick to a consistent style.
If you plan to contribute content, you should take some time to read the
existing sections --note that many of these are skeletal and 
the first contributions will be to flesh these sections out.

If you are familiar with texinfo, go ahead and mark up your content
using texinfo.
If you are not, simply author the documentation you create as plain
formatted ASCII.
If you do submit files as texinfo source, make sure to validate them at
your end first by running the files through @code{makeinfo} --badly
created or malformed texinfo source takes more time to fix than marking
up straight text.




@node Credits
@section Credits

This initial version draws heavily from the original Emacspeak user
manual, and includes contributions from 
Jim Van Zandt and Jason White.
Authors who contribute complete sections will be acknowledged here as
well as in the specific section they author.
