@c $Id$
@node Emacspeak Commands
@chapter Emacspeak Commands

This chapter is generated automatically from the source-level documentation.
Any errors or corrections should be made to the source-level
documentation.

@menu
* dtk-speak::                   
* dtk-tcl::                     
* emacspeak::                   
* emacspeak-arc::               
* emacspeak-aumix::             
* emacspeak-bs::                
* emacspeak-buff-menu::         
* emacspeak-c::                 
* emacspeak-calendar::          
* emacspeak-compile::           
* emacspeak-custom::            
* emacspeak-daisy::             
* emacspeak-dired::             
* emacspeak-dismal::            
* emacspeak-ecb::               
* emacspeak-ediff::             
* emacspeak-enriched::          
* emacspeak-entertain::         
* emacspeak-erc::               
* emacspeak-eterm::             
* emacspeak-eudc::              
* emacspeak-filtertext::        
* emacspeak-fix-interactive::   
* emacspeak-forms::             
* emacspeak-freeamp::           
* emacspeak-gnus::              
* emacspeak-gomoku::            
* emacspeak-gridtext::          
* emacspeak-hide::              
* emacspeak-ibuffer::           
* emacspeak-imcom::             
* emacspeak-imenu::             
* emacspeak-info::              
* emacspeak-keymap::            
* emacspeak-kotl::              
* emacspeak-man::               
* emacspeak-mpg123::            
* emacspeak-ocr::               
* emacspeak-outline::           
* emacspeak-pronounce::         
* emacspeak-psgml::             
* emacspeak-python::            
* emacspeak-realaudio::         
* emacspeak-redefine::          
* emacspeak-remote::            
* emacspeak-rmail::             
* emacspeak-solitaire::         
* emacspeak-sounds::            
* emacspeak-speak::             
* emacspeak-speedbar::          
* emacspeak-table-ui::          
* emacspeak-tabulate::          
* emacspeak-tapestry::          
* emacspeak-tar::               
* emacspeak-tetris::            
* emacspeak-tnt::               
* emacspeak-url-template::      
* emacspeak-view::              
* emacspeak-view-process::      
* emacspeak-vm::                
* emacspeak-w3::                
* emacspeak-w3search::          
* emacspeak-websearch::         
* emacspeak-widget::            
* emacspeak-wizards::           
* emacspeak-xml-shell::         
@end menu

@node dtk-speak
@section dtk-speak






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  dtk-speak.



@deffn dtk-toggle-splitting-on-white-space
@kbd{ control e d SPACE }

Toggle splitting of speech on white space.
This affects the internal state of emacspeak that decides if we split
text purely by clause boundaries, or also include
whitespace.  By default, emacspeak sends a clause at a time
to the speech device.  This produces fluent speech for
normal use.  However in modes such as `shell-mode' and some
programming language modes, clause markers appear
infrequently, and this can result in large amounts of text
being sent to the speech device at once, making the system
unresponsive when asked to stop talking.  Splitting on white
space makes emacspeak's stop command responsive.  However,
when splitting on white space, the speech sounds choppy
since the synthesizer is getting a word at a time.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-set-chunk-separator-syntax
@kbd{ control e d RETURN }

Interactively set how text is split in chunks.
See the Emacs documentation on syntax tables for details on how characters are
classified into various syntactic classes.
Argument S specifies the syntax class.
@end deffn



@deffn tts-restart
@kbd{ control e control s }

Use this to nuke the currently running TTS server and restart it.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-select-server
@kbd{ control e d d }

Select a speech server interactively.
Argument PROGRAM specifies the speech server program.
When called  interactively, The selected server is started immediately. 
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-toggle-debug
@kbd{ control e d b }

Toggle state of the debug FLAG.
When debugging is on, you can switch to the buffer
*speaker* to examine the output from the process
that talks to the speech device by using command C-e d C-M-b.
Note: *speaker* is a hidden buffer, ie it has a leading space in its name.
@end deffn



@deffn tts-show-debug-buffer
@kbd{ control e d CONTROL meta b }

Select TTS debugging buffer.
@end deffn

@node dtk-tcl
@section dtk-tcl






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  dtk-tcl.



@deffn dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate
@kbd{ control e d 9   control e d 8   control e d 7   control e d 6   control e d 5   control e d 4   control e d 3   control e d 2   control e d 1   control e d 0 }

Set speech rate to one of nine predefined levels.
Interactive PREFIX arg says to set the rate globally.
Formula used is:
rate = dtk-speech-rate-base + dtk-speech-rate-step * level.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-reset-state
@kbd{ control e d  cap R  }

Restore sanity to the Dectalk.
Typically used after the Dectalk has been power   cycled.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-resume
@kbd{ control e SPACE }

Resume paused speech.
This command resumes  speech that has been suspended by executing
command `dtk-pause' bound to C-e p.
If speech has not been paused,
and variable `dtk-resume-should-toggle' is t
 then this command will pause ongoing speech.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-set-punctuations-to-some
Set punctuation  mode to some.
Interactive PREFIX arg sets punctuation mode globally.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-toggle-split-caps
@kbd{ control e d s }

Toggle split caps mode.
Split caps mode is useful when reading
Hungarian notation in program source code.  Interactive PREFIX arg
means toggle the global default value, and then set the current local
value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-add-cleanup-pattern
@kbd{ control e d a }

Add this pattern to the list of repeating patterns that
are cleaned up.  Optional interactive prefix arg deletes
this pattern if previously added.  Cleaning up repeated
patterns results in emacspeak speaking the pattern followed
by a repeat count instead of speaking all the characters
making up the pattern.  Thus, by adding the repeating
pattern `.' (this is already added by default) emacspeak
will say ``aw fifteen dot'' when speaking the string
``...............'' instead of ``period period period period
''
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-set-rate
@kbd{ control e d r }

Set speaking RATE for the tts.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-set-punctuations-to-all
Set punctuation  mode to all.
Interactive PREFIX arg sets punctuation mode globally.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-set-punctuations
@kbd{ control e d p }

Set punctuation mode to MODE.
Possible values are `some', `all', or `none'.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-pause
@kbd{ control e p }

Pause ongoing speech.
The speech can be resumed with command `dtk-resume'
normally bound to C-e SPC.  Pausing speech is useful when one needs to
perform a few actions before continuing to read a large document.  Emacspeak
gives you speech feedback as usual once speech has been paused.  `dtk-resume'
continues the interrupted speech irrespective of the buffer
in which it is executed.
Optional PREFIX arg flushes any previously paused speech.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-set-pronunciation-mode
@kbd{ control e d m }

Set pronunciation MODE.
This command is valid only for newer
Dectalks, e.g.  the Dectalk Express.  Possible values are `math, name,
europe, spell', all of which can be turned on or off.
Argument STATE specifies new state.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-toggle-quiet
@kbd{ control e d q }

Toggle state of the speech device between being quiet and talkative.
Useful if you want to continue using an Emacs session that has
emacspeak loaded but wish to make the speech shut up.
Optional argument PREFIX specifies whether speech is turned off in the current buffer o rin all buffers.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-toggle-stop-immediately-while-typing
@kbd{ control e d  cap I  }

Toggle state of variable `dtk-stop-immediately-while-typing'.
As the name implies, if T then speech flushes immediately as you
type.
Optional argument PREFIX specifies if the setting applies to all buffers.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-toggle-capitalization
@kbd{ control e d c }

Toggle capitalization.
when set, capitalization is indicated by a
short beep.  Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-stop
@kbd{ <pause>   control e s }

Stop speech now.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-set-character-scale
@kbd{ control e d f }

Set scale FACTOR for   speech rate.
Speech rate is scaled by this factor
when speaking characters.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-toggle-allcaps-beep
@kbd{ control e d  cap C  }

Toggle allcaps-beep.
when set, allcaps words  are  indicated by a
short beep.  Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
Note that allcaps-beep is a very useful thing when programming.
However it is irritating to have it on when reading documents.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-toggle-punctuation-mode
Toggle punctuation mode between "some" and "all".
Interactive PREFIX arg makes the new setting global.
@end deffn



@deffn dtk-notes-shutdown
Shutdown midi system.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak
@section emacspeak






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak.



@deffn emacspeak-submit-bug
@kbd{ control e CONTROL meta b }

Function to submit a bug to the programs maintainer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-describe-emacspeak
@kbd{ control h control e }

Give a brief overview of emacspeak.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-arc
@section emacspeak-arc






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-arc.



@deffn emacspeak-arc-speak-file-permissions
Speak permissions of file current entry 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-arc-speak-file-modification-time
Speak modification time of the file on current line
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-arc-speak-file-name
Speak the name of the file on current line
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-arc-speak-file-size
Speak the size of the file on current line
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-aumix
@section emacspeak-aumix






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-aumix.



@deffn emacspeak-aumix-volume-decrease
Decrease overall volume. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-aumix-volume-increase
Increase overall volume. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-aumix
@kbd{ control e ( }

Setup output parameters of the auditory display.
Luanch this tool while you have auditory output on
multiple channels playing so you can
adjust the settings to your preference.  Hit q to quit when
you are done.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-aumix-reset
Reset to default audio settings.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease
@kbd{ control e control f <left> }

Decrease volume of wave output. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase
@kbd{ control e control f <right> }

Increase volume of wave output. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-aumix-edit
Edit aumix settings interactively. 
Run command M-x emacspeak-aumix-reset
after saving the settings to have them take effect.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-bs
@section emacspeak-bs






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-bs.



@deffn emacspeak-bs-speak-buffer-line
Speak information about this buffer
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-buff-menu
@section emacspeak-buff-menu






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-buff-menu.



@deffn emacspeak-list-buffers-previous-line
Speech enabled buffer menu navigation
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-line
Speak information about this buffer
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-list-buffers-next-line
Speech enabled buffer menu navigation
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-name
Speak the name of the buffer on this line
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-c
@section emacspeak-c






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-c.



@deffn emacspeak-c-speak-semantics
Speak the C semantics of this line. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-calendar
@section emacspeak-calendar






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-calendar.



@deffn emacspeak-speak-calendar-date
Speak the date under point when called in Calendar Mode. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-appt-repeat-announcement
@kbd{ control e  cap A  }

Speaks the most recently displayed appointment message if any.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-compile
@section emacspeak-compile






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-compile.



@deffn emacspeak-compilation-speak-error
Speech feedback about the compilation error. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-custom
@section emacspeak-custom






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-custom.



@deffn emacspeak-custom-goto-toolbar
Jump to custom toolbar when in a customization buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-custom-goto-group
Jump to custom group when in a customization buffer.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-daisy
@section emacspeak-daisy






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-daisy.



@deffn emacspeak-daisy-mode
A DAISY front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.

Pre-requisites:

0) mpg123 for playing mp3 files
1) libxml and libxslt packages 
2) xml-parse.el for parsing XML in Emacs Lisp.


The Emacspeak DAISY front-end is launched by command
emacspeak-daisy bound to M-x emacspeak-daisy.  

This command switches to a special buffer that has DAISY
commands bounds to single keystrokes-- see the ke-binding
list at the end of this description.  Use Emacs online help
facility to look up help on these commands.

emacspeak-daisy-mode provides the necessary functionality to
navigate and listen to Daisy talking books. 

Here is a list of all emacspeak DAISY commands along with their key-bindings:

key             binding
---             -------

p		previous-line
n		next-line
RET		emacspeak-daisy-play-content-under-point
SPC		emacspeak-daisy-play-audio-under-point
q		bury-buffer
s		emacspeak-daisy-stop-audio
?		describe-mode



In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-daisy-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-daisy-stop-audio
Stop audio.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-daisy-play-content-under-point
Play SMIL content  under point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-daisy-play-audio-under-point
Play audio clip under point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-daisy-open-book
@kbd{ control e control b }

Open Digital Talking Book specified by navigation file filename.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-dired
@section emacspeak-dired






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-dired.



@deffn emacspeak-dired-speak-file-permissions
Speak the permissions of the current file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dired-show-file-type
Displays type of current file by running command file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dired-speak-symlink-target
Speaks the target of the symlink on the current line.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dired-speak-file-size
Speak the size of the current file.
On a directory line, run du -s on the directory to speak its size.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dired-speak-file-access-time
Speak access time  of the current file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dired-speak-header-line
Speak the header line of the dired buffer. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dired-label-fields
Labels the fields of the listing in the dired buffer.
Currently is a no-op  unless
unless `dired-listing-switches' contains -al
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dired-speak-file-modification-time
Speak modification time  of the current file.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-dismal
@section emacspeak-dismal






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-dismal.



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-forward-col-and-summarize
Move forward by arg columns
 (the next column by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-value
Display the cell value in the message area
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarize
Summarizes a sheet using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarizer-list
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-set-row-summarizer-list
Specify or reset row summarizer list.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-col-header
Display current cell along with its column header.
The `column header' is the entry in row 0.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-row-header
Displays current cell along with its row header.
The `row header' is the entry in column 0.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-forward-row-and-summarize
Move forward by arg rows
 (the next row by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-set-sheet-summarizer-list
Specify or reset sheet summarizer list.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-row-summarize
Summarizes a row using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-row-summarizer-list
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-col-summarize
Summarizes a col using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-col-summarizer-list
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-set-col-summarizer-list
Specify or reset col summarizer list.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-backward-col-and-summarize
Move backward by arg columns
 (the previous column by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-backward-row-and-summarize
Move backward by arg rows
 (the previous row by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-expression
Display the expression in the message area
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ecb
@section emacspeak-ecb






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ecb.



@deffn emacspeak-ecb-tree-shift-return
Do shift return in ECB tree browser.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ediff
@section emacspeak-ediff






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ediff.



@deffn emacspeak-ediff-speak-current-difference
Speak the current difference
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-enriched
@section emacspeak-enriched






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-enriched.



@deffn emacspeak-enriched-voiceify-faces
Map base fonts to voices.
Useful in voicifying rich text.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-entertain
@section emacspeak-entertain






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-entertain.



@deffn emacspeak-hangman-speak-guess
Speak current guessed string. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-hangman-speak-statistics
Speak statistics.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-erc
@section emacspeak-erc






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-erc.



@deffn emacspeak-erc-toggle-my-monitor
Toggle state of ERC  monitor of my messages.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-erc-delete-name-from-monitor
Remove name to monitor in this room.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-erc-toggle-room-monitor
Toggle state of ERC room monitor.
Interactive 
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-erc-add-name-to-monitor
Add people to monitor in this room.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-eterm
@section emacspeak-eterm






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-eterm.



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-up
Move the pointer up a line.
Argument COUNT .specifies number of lines by which to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-right-edge
Move the pointer to the right edge.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-search-forward
Search forward on the terminal.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-top
Move the pointer to the top of the screen.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-set-focus-window
Prompt for the id of a predefined window,
and set the `focus' window to it.
Non-nil interactive prefix arg `unsets' the focus window;
this is equivalent to having the entire terminal as the focus window (this is
what eterm starts up with).
Setting the focus window results in emacspeak  monitoring screen
and speaking that window upon seeing screen activity.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-char
Speak char under eterm pointer.
Pronounces character phonetically unless  called with a PREFIX arg.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-copy-region-to-register
Copy text from terminal to an Emacs REGISTER.
This copies  region delimited by the emacspeak eterm marker 
set by command M-x emacspeak-eterm-set-marker and the 
emacspeak eterm pointer to a register.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer
Speak current pointer position.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-paste-register
Paste contents of REGISTER at current location.
If the specified register contains text, then that text is
sent to the terminal as if it were typed by the user.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-next-color-change
Move the eterm pointer to the next color change.
This allows you to move between highlighted regions of the screen.
Optional argument COUNT specifies how many changes to skip.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-bottom
Move the pointer to the bottom  of the screen.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-down
Move the pointer down a line.
Argument COUNT specifies number of lines by which to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-predefined-window
Speak a predefined eterm window between 1 and 10.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-yank-window
Yank contents of  an eterm window at point.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-screen
Speak the screen.  Default is to speak from the emacspeak pointer  to point.
Optional prefix arg FLAG causes region above
the Emacspeak pointer to be spoken.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-search-backward
Search backward on the terminal.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-goto-line
Move emacspeak eterm pointer to a specified LINE.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-describe-window
Describe an eterm  window.
Description indicates eterm window coordinates and whether it is stretchable

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-line
Speak the line the pointer is on.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-word
Speak the word  the pointer is on.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-eterm-autospeak
Toggle state of eterm autospeak.
When eterm autospeak is turned on and the terminal is in line mode,
all output to the terminal is automatically spoken. 
  Interactive prefix arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
  current local  value to the result. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-left
Move the pointer left.
Argument COUNT specifies number of columns by which to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-cursor
Move the pointer to the cursor.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-right
Move the pointer right.
Argument COUNT specifies number of columns by which to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-backward-word
Move the pointer backward  by words. 
Interactive numeric prefix arg specifies number of words to move.
Argument COUNT specifies number of words by which to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-previous-color-change
Move the eterm pointer to the next color change.
This allows you to move between highlighted regions of the screen.
Optional argument COUNT specifies how many changes to skip.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-set-marker
Set Emacspeak eterm marker.
This sets  the emacspeak eterm marker to the position pointed 
to by the emacspeak eterm pointer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-toggle-focus-window
Toggle active state of focus window.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-forward-word
Move the pointer forward by words. 
Interactive numeric prefix arg specifies number of words to move.
Argument COUNT specifies number of words by which to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-cursor
Speak cursor position.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-define-window
Prompt for a window ID.
The window is then define to be
the rectangle delimited by point and eterm mark.  This is to
be used when emacspeak is set to review mode inside an
eterm.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-toggle-review
Toggle state of eterm review. 
In review mode, you can move around the terminal and listen to the contnets 
without sending input to the terminal itself.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-left-edge
Move the pointer to the right edge.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-remote-term
@kbd{ control e CONTROL meta r }

Start a terminal-emulator in a new buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-speak-window
Speak an eterm window.
Argument ID specifies the window.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-maybe-send-raw
Send a raw character through if in the terminal buffer.
Execute end of line if
in a non eterm buffer if executed via C-e C-e
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-toggle-pointer-mode
Toggle emacspeak eterm pointer mode.
With optional interactive prefix  arg, turn it on.
When emacspeak eterm is in pointer mode, the eterm read pointer
stays where it is rather than automatically moving to the terminal cursor when
there is terminal activity.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-eterm-kill-ring-save-region
Copy text from terminal to kill ring.
This copies  region delimited by the emacspeak eterm marker 
set by command M-x emacspeak-eterm-set-marker and the 
emacspeak eterm pointer.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-eudc
@section emacspeak-eudc






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-eudc.



@deffn emacspeak-eudc-send-mail
Send email to the address given by the current record. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-filtertext
@section emacspeak-filtertext






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-filtertext.



@deffn emacspeak-filtertext-mode
Major mode for FilterText interaction. 


key             binding
---             -------

r		emacspeak-filtertext-revert
^		flush-lines
=		keep-lines



In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-filtertext-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-filtertext-revert
Revert to original text.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-filtertext
@kbd{ control e ^ }

Copy over text in region to special filtertext buffer in
preparation for interactively filtering text. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-fix-interactive
@section emacspeak-fix-interactive






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-fix-interactive.



@deffn emacspeak-fix-commands-loaded-from
Fix all commands loaded from a specified module.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-fix-all-recent-commands
Fix recently loaded interactive commands.
This command looks through `load-history' and fixes commands if necessary.
Memoizes call in emacspeak-load-history-pointer to memoize this call. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-forms
@section emacspeak-forms






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-forms.



@deffn emacspeak-forms-find-file
Visit a forms file
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-forms-flush-unwanted-records
Prompt for pattern and flush matching lines
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-record
Summarize current record
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-forms-speak-field
Speak current form field name and value.
Assumes that point is at the front of a field value.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-forms-rerun-filter
Rerun  filter --allows us to nuke more matching records
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-position
Summarize current position in list of records
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-freeamp
@section emacspeak-freeamp






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-freeamp.



@deffn emacspeak-freeamp
@kbd{ control e control f o }

Play specified resource using freeamp.
Resource is an  MP3 file or m3u playlist.
The player is placed in a buffer in emacspeak-freeamp-mode.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-freeamp-mode
Major mode for freeamp interaction. 


key             binding
---             -------

<right>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase
<left>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease
q		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
=		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
s		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
b		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
f		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
-		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
+		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
p		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
o		emacspeak-freeamp



This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-freeamp-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-command
Execute FreeAmp command.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
@kbd{ control e control f q   control e control f =   control e control f s   control e control f b   control e control f f   control e control f -   control e control f +   control e control f p }

Call appropriate freeamp command.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-gnus
@section emacspeak-gnus






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-gnus.



@deffn emacspeak-gnus-summary-catchup-quietly-and-exit
Catch up on all articles in current group.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-gomoku
@section emacspeak-gomoku






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-gomoku.



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-speak-emacs-previous-move
Speak emacs' previous move
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-goto-x-y
Prompt for and go to that square.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-speak-number-of-moves
Speak number of moves so far
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-display-statistics
Display statistics from previous games
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-speak-humans-previous-move
Speak human' previous move
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-negative-diagonal
Aurally display current negative sloped diagonal 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-row
Aurally display current row
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-column
Aurally display current column
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-positive-diagonal
Aurally display current positively sloped diagonal
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gomoku-speak-square
Speak coordinates and state of square at point
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-gridtext
@section emacspeak-gridtext






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-gridtext.



@deffn emacspeak-gridtext-apply
@kbd{ control e # a }

Apply grid to region.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gridtext-save
@kbd{ control e # s }

Save out grid settings.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-gridtext-load
@kbd{ control e # l }

Load saved grid settings.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-hide
@section emacspeak-hide






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-hide.



@deffn emacspeak-hide-speak-block-sans-prefix
@kbd{ control e control j }

Speaks current block after stripping its prefix.
If the current block is not hidden, it first hides it.
This is useful because as you locate blocks, you can invoke this
command to listen to the block,
and when you have heard enough navigate easily  to move past the block.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-hide-or-expose-all-blocks
Hide or expose all blocks in buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block
@kbd{ control e j }

Hide or expose a block of text.
This command either hides or exposes a block of text
starting on the current line.  A block of text is defined as
a portion of the buffer in which all lines start with a
common PREFIX.  Optional interactive prefix arg causes all
blocks in current buffer to be hidden or exposed.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ibuffer
@section emacspeak-ibuffer






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ibuffer.



@deffn emacspeak-ibuffer-speak-buffer-line
Speak information about this buffer
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-imcom
@section emacspeak-imcom






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-imcom.



@deffn emacspeak-imcom-view-chat-session
Display specified chat session.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-imcom
Start IMCom.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-imcom-mode
Major mode for Jabber interaction using IMCom.


key             binding
---             -------

C-c		Prefix Command

C-c v		emacspeak-imcom-view-chat-session



In addition to any hooks its parent mode `comint-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-imcom-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-imenu
@section emacspeak-imenu






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-imenu.



@deffn emacspeak-imenu-speak-this-section
Speak upto start of next index entry
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-imenu-goto-previous-index-position
Goto the previous index position in current buffer
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-imenu-goto-next-index-position
Goto the next index position in current buffer
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-info
@section emacspeak-info






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-info.



@deffn emacspeak-info-speak-header
Speak info header line.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-keymap
@section emacspeak-keymap






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-keymap.



@deffn emacspeak-keymap-choose-new-emacspeak-prefix
Interactively select a new prefix key to use for all emacspeak
commands.  The default is to use `C-e'  This command
lets you switch the prefix to something else.  This is a useful thing
to do if you run emacspeak on a remote machine from inside a terminal
that is running inside a local emacspeak session.  You can have the
remote emacspeak use a different control key to give your fingers some
relief.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-kotl
@section emacspeak-kotl






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-kotl.



@deffn emacspeak-kotl-speak-cell
Speak cell contents from point to end of cell.
  With prefix arg, speaks entire cell contents
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-kotl-setup-keys
Setup additional keybindings
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-man
@section emacspeak-man






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-man.



@deffn emacspeak-man-browse-man-page
Browse the man page --read it a paragraph at a time
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-man-speak-this-section
Speak current section
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-mpg123
@section emacspeak-mpg123






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-mpg123.



@deffn emacspeak-mp3-playlist-play
Play a playlist. 
Optional interactive prefix arg says not to shuffle  the list. 
Use command M-x emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip 
to skip to the next track. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip
Skip currently playing track. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mpg123-speak-length
Speak duration of the current song.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mp3-playlist-stop
Kill currently playing playlist. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mpg123-speak-title
Speak title of the current song.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mpg123-speak-filename
Speak filename of the current song.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mpg123-speak-current-time
Speak time in current track.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mpg123-forward-minute
Forw by ARG minutes.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mpg123-backward-minute
Move back by specified number of minutes.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ocr
@section emacspeak-ocr






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ocr.



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-forward-page
Like forward page, but tracks page number of current document.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo
Scan in a photograph.
The scanned image is converted to JPEG.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-backward-page
Like backward page, but tracks page number of current document.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-scan-image
Acquire page image.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-customize
Customize OCR settings.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory
Launch dired on OCR workng directory.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page
Speaks current page.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-toggle-read-only
Toggle read-only state of OCR buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-mode
 An OCR front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.

Pre-requisites:

1) A working scanner back-end like SANE on Linux.

2) An OCR engine.

1: Make sure your scanner back-end works, and that you have
the utilities to scan a document and acquire an image as a
tiff file.  Then set variable
emacspeak-ocr-scan-image-program to point at this utility.
By default, this is set to `scanimage' which is the image
scanning utility provided by SANE.

By default, this front-end attempts to compress the acquired
tiff image; make sure you have a utility like tiffcp.
Variable emacspeak-ocr-compress-image is set to `tiffcp' by
default; if you use something else, you should customize
this variable.

2: Next, make sure you have an OCR engine installed and
working.  By default this front-end assumes that OCR is
available as /usr/bin/ocr.

Once you have ensured that acquiring an image and applying
OCR to it work independently of Emacs, you can use this
Emacspeak front-end to enable easy OCR access from within
Emacspeak.

The Emacspeak OCR front-end is launched by command
emacspeak-ocr bound to C-e C-o.  

This command switches to a special buffer that has OCR
commands bounds to single keystrokes-- see the ke-binding
list at the end of this description.  Use Emacs online help
facility to look up help on these commands.

emacspeak-ocr-mode provides the necessary functionality to
scan, OCR, read and save documents.  By default, scanned
images and the resulting text are saved under directory
~/ocr; see variable emacspeak-ocr-working-directory.
Invoking command emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory bound
to M-x emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory will open this directory.

By default, the document being scanned is named `untitled'.
You can name the document by using command
emacspeak-ocr-name-document bound to
M-x emacspeak-ocr-name-document.  The document name is used
in constructing the name of the image and text files.

Here is a list of all emacspeak OCR commands along with their key-bindings:

key             binding
---             -------

9		emacspeak-ocr-page
8		emacspeak-ocr-page
7		emacspeak-ocr-page
6		emacspeak-ocr-page
5		emacspeak-ocr-page
4		emacspeak-ocr-page
3		emacspeak-ocr-page
2		emacspeak-ocr-page
1		emacspeak-ocr-page
C		emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options
I		emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options
SPC		emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page
s		emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page
p		emacspeak-ocr-page
]		emacspeak-ocr-forward-page
[		emacspeak-ocr-backward-page
d		emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory
n		emacspeak-ocr-name-document
o		emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image
j		emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo
i		emacspeak-ocr-scan-image
RET		emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize
w		emacspeak-ocr-write-document
q		bury-buffer
c		emacspeak-ocr-customize
?		describe-mode



In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-ocr-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page
Writes out recognized text from current page
to an appropriately named file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr
@kbd{ control e control o }

An OCR front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.  

Page image is acquired using tools from the SANE package.
The acquired image is run through the OCR engine if one is
available, and the results placed in a buffer that is
suitable for browsing the results.

For detailed help, invoke command emacspeak-ocr bound to
C-e C-o to launch emacspeak-ocr-mode, and press
`?' to display mode-specific help for emacspeak-ocr-mode.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image
Run OCR engine on current image.
Prompts for image file if file corresponding to the expected
`current page' is not found.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options
Interactively update scan image options.
Prompts with current setting in the minibuffer.
Setting persists for current Emacs session.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-write-document
Writes out recognized text from all pages in current document.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options
Interactively update  image compression options.
Prompts with current setting in the minibuffer.
Setting persists for current Emacs session.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize
Scan in a page and run OCR engine on it.
Use this command once you've verified that the separate
steps of acquiring an image and running the OCR engine work
corectly by themselves.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-name-document
Name document being scanned in the current OCR buffer.
Pick a short but meaningful name.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-ocr-page
Move to specified page.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-outline
@section emacspeak-outline






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-outline.



@deffn emacspeak-outline-speak-previous-heading
Analogous to outline-previous-visible-heading,
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-outline-speak-this-heading
Speak current outline section starting from point
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-outline-speak-backward-heading
Analogous to outline-backward-same-level
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-outline-speak-next-heading
Analogous to outline-next-visible-heading,
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-outline-speak-forward-heading
Analogous to outline-forward-same-level,
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-pronounce
@section emacspeak-pronounce






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-pronounce.



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-toggle-use-of-dictionaries
Toggle use of pronunciation dictionaries in current buffer.
Pronunciations can be dfined on a per file, per directory and/or per
mode basis.
Pronunciations are activated on a per buffer basis.
Turning on the use of pronunciation dictionaries results in emacspeak
composing a pronunciation table based on the currently defined
pronunciation dictionaries.
After this, the pronunciations will be applied whenever text in the
buffer is spoken.
Optional argument state can be used from Lisp programs to
explicitly turn pronunciations on or off.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-clear-dictionaries
Clear all current pronunciation dictionaries.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-edit-pronunciations
Prompt for and launch a pronunciation editor on the
specified pronunciation dictionary key.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-define-pronunciation
Interactively define entries in the pronunciation dictionaries.
Default term to define is delimited by region.
First loads any persistent dictionaries if not already loaded.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-dispatch
@kbd{ control e meta d }

Provides the user interface front-end to Emacspeak's pronunciation dictionaries.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-load-dictionaries
Load pronunciation dictionaries.
Optional argument FILENAME specifies the dictionary file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-yank-word
Yank word at point into minibuffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-save-dictionaries
Writes out the persistent emacspeak pronunciation dictionaries.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-refresh-pronunciations
Refresh pronunciation table for current buffer.
Activates pronunciation dictionaries if not already active.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-pronounce-define-local-pronunciation
@kbd{ control e meta b }

Define buffer local pronounciation.
Argument WORD specifies the word which should be pronounced as specified by PRONUNCIATION.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-psgml
@section emacspeak-psgml






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-psgml.



@deffn emacspeak-xml-browse-mode
Mode for browsing XML documents.



Uses keymap "emacspeak-xml-browse-mode", which is not currently defined.


In addition to any hooks its parent mode `xml-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-xml-browse-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-psgml-toggle-interactive-voice-locking
Toggles variable sgml-set-face.
When turned on, the  buffer is voice locked interactively.
Leave this off in general while editting.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-psgml-summarize-element
Context-sensitive element summarizer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-psgml-speak-current-element
Speak contents of current element. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-python
@section emacspeak-python






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-python.



@deffn emacspeak-py-previous-block
Move backward to the beginning of the current block.
If already at the beginning then move to previous block.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-py-next-block
Move forward to the beginning of the next block.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-realaudio
@section emacspeak-realaudio






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-realaudio.



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-play-url-at-point
Play url under point as realaudio
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-play
Play a realaudio stream.  Uses files from your Realaudio
shortcuts directory for completion.  See documentation for
user configurable variable
emacspeak-realaudio-shortcuts-directory. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-select-realaudio-buffer
Switch to realaudio buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-browse
@kbd{ control e : }

Browse RAM file before playing the selected component.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-mode
Major mode for streaming audio. 


key             binding
---             -------

<right>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase
<left>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease
@}		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
@{		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
]		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
[		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
9		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
0		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
,		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
.		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
>		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
<		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
i		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
l		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
e		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
s		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
t		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
p		emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command



This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-realaudio-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-stop
Stop playing realaudio
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command
Call appropriate TRPlayer command.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio
@kbd{ control e ; }

Start or control streaming audio including MP3 and
realaudio.  If using `TRPlayer' as the player, accepts
trplayer control commands if a stream is already playing.
Otherwise, the playing stream is simply stopped.  If no
stream is playing, this command prompts for a realaudio
resource.  Realaudio resources can be specified either as a
Realaudio URL, the location of a local Realaudio file, or as
the name of a local Realaudio metafile. Realaudio resources
you have played in this session are available in the
minibuffer history.  The default is to play the resource you
played most recently. Emacspeak uses the contents of the
directory specified by variable
emacspeak-realaudio-shortcuts-directory to offer a set of
completions. Hit space to use this completion list.

If using TRPlayer, you can either give one-shot commands
using command emacspeak-realaudio available from anywhere on
the audio desktop as C-e ;.
Alternatively,  switch to buffer *realaudo* if you
wish to issue many nvigation commands.  Note that buffer
*realaudio* uses a special major mode that provides the
various navigation commands via single keystrokes.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-command
Execute TRPlayer command.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-redefine
@section emacspeak-redefine






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-redefine.



@deffn emacspeak-backward-char
@kbd{ control b   <left> }

Backward-char redefined to speak char moved to. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-self-insert-command
@kbd{ Character set JISX0213-2   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Indian 1 Column   Character set Indian IS 13194   Character set Arabic 2-column   Character set Lao   Character set ASCII with right-to-left direction   Character set Arabic 1-column   Character set Arabic digit   Character set VISCII upper-case   Character set VISCII lower-case   Character set IPA   Character set SiSheng (PinYin/ZhuYin)   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set RHP of Latin-8 (ISO 8859-14)   Character set RHP of Latin-9 (ISO 8859-15): ISO-IR-203   Character set RHP of Latin-5 (ISO 8859-9): ISO-IR-148   Character set RHP of Cyrillic (ISO 8859-5): ISO-IR-144   Character set Japanese Roman (JISX0201.1976)   Character set Japanese Katakana (JISX0201.1976)   Character set RHP of Hebrew (ISO 8859-8): ISO-IR-138   Character set RHP of Arabic (ISO 8859-6): ISO-IR-127   Character set RHP of Greek (ISO 8859-7): ISO-IR-126   Character set RHP of Thai (TIS620): ISO-IR-166   Character set RHP of Latin-4 (ISO 8859-4): ISO-IR-110   Character set RHP of Latin-3 (ISO 8859-3): ISO-IR-109   Character set RHP of Latin-2 (ISO 8859-2): ISO-IR-101   Character set RHP of Latin-1 (ISO 8859-1): ISO-IR-100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~   @}   |   @{   z   y   x   w   v   u   t   s   r   q   p   o   n   m   l   k   j   i   h   g   f   e   d   c   b   a   `   _   ^   ]   \   [    cap Z     cap Y     cap X     cap W     cap V     cap U     cap T     cap S     cap R     cap Q     cap P     cap O     cap N     cap M     cap L     cap K     cap J     cap I     cap H     cap G     cap F     cap E     cap D     cap C     cap B     cap A    @@   ?   >   =   <   ;   :   9   8   7   6   5   4   3   2   1   0   /   .   -   ,   +   *   )   (   '   &   %   $   #   !   SPACE }

Insert a character.
Speaks the character if emacspeak-character-echo is true.
See  command emacspeak-toggle-word-echo bound to
C-e d w.
Toggle variable dtk-stop-immediately-while-typing if you want to have
speech flush as you type.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-kill-buffer
@kbd{ control x k }

Speech-enabled version of kill-buffer for Emacs 21.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-forward-char
@kbd{ control f   <right> }

Forward-char redefined to speak char moved to. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-remote
@section emacspeak-remote






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-remote.



@deffn emacspeak-remote-connect-to-server
@kbd{ control e meta r }

Connect to and start using remote speech server running on host host
and listening on port port.  Host is the hostname of the remote
server, typically the desktop machine.  Port is the tcp port that that
host is listening on for speech requests.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-to-server
Connect to remote server.
Does not prompt for host or port, but quietly uses the
guesses that appear as defaults when prompting.
Use this once you are sure the guesses are usually correct.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-rmail
@section emacspeak-rmail






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-rmail.



@deffn emacspeak-rmail-summarize-current-message
Summarize current message
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-rmail-speak-current-message-labels
Speak labels of current message
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-solitaire
@section emacspeak-solitaire






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-solitaire.



@deffn emacspeak-solitaire-show-column
Display current row auditorallly
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-solitaire-speak-coordinates
Speak coordinates of current position
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-solitaire-show-row
Display current row auditorallly
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-sounds
@section emacspeak-sounds






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-sounds.



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-auditory-icons
@kbd{ control e control a }

Toggle use of auditory icons.
Optional interactive PREFIX arg toggles global value.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-play-all-icons
Plays all defined icons and speaks their names.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-set-auditory-icon-player
@kbd{ control e meta a }

Select  player used for producing auditory icons.
Recommended choices:

emacspeak-serve-auditory-icon for  the wave device.
emacspeak-midi-icon for midi device. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-sounds-select-theme
@kbd{ control e ) }

Select theme for auditory icons.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-sounds-reset-local-player
Ask Emacspeak to use a local audio player.
This lets me have Emacspeak switch to using audioplay on
solaris after I've used it for a while from a remote session
where it would use the more primitive speech-server based
audio player.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-speak
@section emacspeak-speak






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-speak.



@deffn emacspeak-kill-buffer-quietly
Kill current buffer without asking for confirmation.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter
@kbd{ control e | }

Set up filter for selectively speaking or ignoring portions of lines.
The filter is specified as a list of pairs.
For example, to filter  columns 1 -- 10 and 20 -- 25,
specify filter as 
((0 9) (20 25)). Filter settings are persisted across sessions.  A
persisted filter is used as the default when prompting for a filter.
This allows one to accumulate a set of filters for specific files like
/var/adm/messages and /var/adm/maillog over time.
Option emacspeak-speak-line-invert-filter determines 
the sense of the filter. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-current-percentage
@kbd{ control e % }

Announce the percentage into the current buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-execute-repeatedly
Execute COMMAND repeatedly.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-char
@kbd{ control e c }

Speak character under point.
Pronounces character phonetically unless  called with a PREFIX arg.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer
@kbd{ control e n }

Speak remainder of the buffer starting at point
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-comint-output-monitor
@kbd{ control e o }

Toggle state of Emacspeak comint monitor.
When turned on, comint output is automatically spoken.  Turn this on if
you want your shell to speak its results.  Interactive
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-help-interactively
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire help.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire help.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-region
@kbd{ control e r }

Speak region.
Argument START  and END specify region to speak.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-completions
Speak completions  buffer if one present.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-set-display-table
Sets up buffer specific speech display table that controls how
special characters are spoken. Interactive prefix argument causes
setting to be global.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-owindow-speak-line
@kbd{ ESCAPE <select> }

Speak the current line in the other window.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-voicify-rectangle
Voicify the current rectangle.
When calling from a program,arguments are
START END personality
Prompts for PERSONALITY  with completion when called interactively.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mark-forward-mark
@kbd{ <control down> }

Cycle forward through the mark ring.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-spell-current-word
@kbd{ control e  cap W  }

Spell word at  point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-page-interactively
@kbd{ control e ] }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire page.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire page.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-paragraph
@kbd{ control e @{ }

Speak paragraph.
With prefix arg, speaks rest of current paragraph.
Negative prefix arg will read from start of current paragraph to point.
If voice-lock-mode is on, then it will use any defined personality. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-page
@kbd{ control e [ }

Speak a page.
With prefix ARG, speaks rest of current page.
Negative prefix arg will read from start of current page to point.
If option  `voice-lock-mode' is on, then it will use any defined personality.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-browse-buffer
@kbd{ control e , }

Browse the current buffer by reading it a paragraph at a
time.
Optional interactive prefix arg define-paragraph 
prompts for regexp that defines paragraph start and
paragraph-separate. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-message-again
@kbd{ control e a }

Speak the last message from Emacs once again.
Optional interactive prefix arg 
`from-message-cache' speaks message cached from the most
recent call to function `message'.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-line
@kbd{ control e l }

Speaks current line.  With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of
the line from point.  Negative prefix optional arg speaks
from start of line to point.  Voicifies if option
`voice-lock-mode' is on.  Indicates indentation with a tone
if audio indentation is in use.  Indicates position of point
with an aural highlight if option `emacspeak-show-point' is
turned on --see command `emacspeak-show-point' bound to
M-x emacspeak-show-point.  Lines that start hidden blocks of
text, e.g.  outline header lines, or header lines of blocks
created by command `emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block' are
indicated with auditory icon ellipses.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-word
@kbd{ control e w }

Speak current word.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the word from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of word to point.
If executed  on the same buffer position a second time, the word is
spelt instead of being spoken.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages
@kbd{ control e q }

Toggle the state of whether emacspeak echoes messages.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-owindow-scroll-up
@kbd{ ESCAPE <next> }

Scroll up the window that command `other-window' would move to.
Speak the window contents after scrolling.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-use-customized-blink-paren
A customized blink-paren to speak  matching opening paren.
We need to call this in case Emacs
is anal and loads its own builtin blink-paren function
which does not talk.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-view-register
@kbd{ control e v }

Display the contents of a register, and then speak it.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-minibuffer
Speak the minibuffer contents
 With prefix arg, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-sexp-interactively
@kbd{ control e " }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire sexp.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire sexp.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-minor-mode-line
@kbd{ control e  cap M  }

Speak the minor mode-information.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-skim-paragraph
Skim paragraph.
Skimming a paragraph results in the speech speeding up after
the first clause.
Speech is scaled by the value of dtk-speak-skim-scale
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-buffer-filename
@kbd{ control e f }

Speak name of file being visited in current buffer.
Speak default directory if invoked in a dired buffer,
or when the buffer is not visiting any file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-audio-annotate-paragraphs
Set property auditory-icon at front of all paragraphs.
Interactive PREFIX arg prompts for sound cue to use
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-current-kill
@kbd{ control e k }

Speak the current kill entry.
This is the text that will be yanked in by the next C-y.
Prefix numeric arg, COUNT, specifies that the text that will be yanked as a
result of a
C-y  followed by count-1 M-y
be spoken.
 The kill number that is spoken says what numeric prefix arg to give
to command yank.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-which-function
@kbd{ control e meta w }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  which function mode.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-buffer-interactively
@kbd{ control e  cap B  }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire buffer.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-spaces-at-point
@kbd{ control e CONTROL meta @@ }

Speak the white space at point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-mode-line
@kbd{ control e m }

Speak the mode-line.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-paragraph-interactively
@kbd{ control e  cap P  }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire paragraph.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire paragraph.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-next-window
@kbd{ control e control n }

Speak the next window.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-previous-window
@kbd{ control e control p }

Speak the previous window.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-switch-to-previous-buffer
Switch to most recently used interesting buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-skim-buffer
Skim the current buffer  a paragraph at a time.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-blink-matching-open
Display matching delimiter in the minibuffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert
@kbd{ control e meta m }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  mail alert.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
Turning on this option results in Emacspeak producing an auditory icon
indicating the arrival  of new mail when displaying the mode line.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-display-char
Display char under point using current speech display table.
Behavior is the same as command `emacspeak-speak-char'
bound to C-e c
for characters in the range 0--127.
Optional argument PREFIX  specifies that the character should be spoken phonetically.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs
Locate paragraphs and voice annotate the first word.
Here, paragraph is taken to mean a chunk of text preceeded by a blank line.
Useful to do this before you listen to an entire buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak
@kbd{ control e control q }

Toggle state of Emacspeak comint autospeak.
When turned on, comint output is automatically spoken.  Turn this on if
you want your shell to speak its results.  Interactive
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-mark-backward-mark
@kbd{ <control up> }

Cycle backward through the mark ring.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-zap-tts
@kbd{ control e d z }

Send this command to the TTS directly.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-continuously
@kbd{ control e RETURN }

Speak a buffer continuously.
First prompts using the minibuffer for the kind of action to perform after
speaking each chunk.
E.G.  speak a line at a time etc.
Speaking commences at current buffer position.
Pressing  C-g breaks out, leaving point on last chunk that was spoken.
 Any other key continues to speak the buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-sexp
@kbd{ control e ' }

Speak current sexp.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the sexp  from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of sexp to point.
If option  `voice-lock-mode' is on, then uses the personality.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-voicify-region
Voicify the current region.
When calling from a program,arguments are
START END personality.
Prompts for PERSONALITY  with completion when called interactively.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dial-dtk
@kbd{ control e d t }

Prompt for and dial a phone NUMBER with the Dectalk.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-current-column
@kbd{ control e = }

Speak the current column.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-predefined-window
@kbd{ control e 9   control e 8   control e 7   control e 6   control e 5   control e 4   control e 3   control e 2   control e 1   control e 0 }

Speak one of the first 10 windows on the screen.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
In general, you'll never have Emacs split the screen into more than
two or three.
Argument ARG determines the 'other' window to speak.
Semantics  of `other' is the same as for the builtin Emacs command
`other-window'.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-line-echo
@kbd{ control e d l }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  line echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-front-of-buffer
Speak   the buffer from start to   point
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-action-mode
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  action mode.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-sentence
Speak current sentence.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the sentence  from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of sentence to point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-previous-field
@kbd{ control e < }

Skip backwards across and speak  contiguous sequence of non-blank characters.
Useful in moving across fields.
Will be improved if it proves useful.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-word-echo
@kbd{ control e d w }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  word echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-speak-line-invert-filter
@kbd{ control e \ }

Toggle state of   how column filter is interpreted.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-show-point
@kbd{ control e control d }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak-show-point.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-help
@kbd{ control e h }

Speak help buffer if one present.
With prefix arg, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-current-mark
@kbd{ control e control @@ }

Speak the line containing the mark.
With no argument, speaks the
line containing the mark--this is where `exchange-point-and-mark'
C-x C-x would jump.  Numeric prefix arg 'COUNT' speaks
line containing mark 'n' where 'n' is one less than the number of
times one has to jump using `set-mark-command' to get to this marked
position.  The location of the mark is indicated by an aural highlight
achieved by a change in voice personality.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-skim-next-paragraph
Skim next paragraph.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-line-interactively
@kbd{ control e  cap L  }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire line.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire line.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-owindow-previous-line
@kbd{ ESCAPE <up> }

Move to the next line in the other window and speak it.
Numeric prefix arg COUNT specifies number of lines to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-switch-to-completions-window
Jump to the *Completions* buffer if it is active.
We make the current minibuffer contents (which is obviously the
prefix for each entry in the completions buffer) inaudible
to reduce chatter.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-dtk-speak-version
@kbd{ control e d  cap V  }

Use this to find out which version of the Dectalk firmware you are running.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-next-field
@kbd{ control e > }

Skip across and speak the next contiguous sequence of non-blank characters.
Useful in moving across fields.
Will be improved if it proves useful.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-line-number
@kbd{ control e control l }

Speak the line number of the current line.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-read-previous-line
@kbd{ control e <up> }

Read previous line, specified by an offset, without moving.
Default is to read the previous line. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-read-previous-word
Read previous word, specified as a prefix arg, without moving.
Default is to read the previous word. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-owindow-scroll-down
@kbd{ ESCAPE <prior> }

Scroll down  the window that command `other-window' would move to.
Speak the window contents after scrolling.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-time
@kbd{ control e t }

Speak the time.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-completions-move-to-completion-group
Move to group of choices beginning with character last
typed. If no such group exists, then we dont move. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-word-interactively
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire word.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire word.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-character-echo
@kbd{ control e d k }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  character echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-rectangle
@kbd{ control e  cap R  }

Speak a rectangle of text.
Rectangle is delimited by point and mark.
When call from a program,
arguments specify the START and END of the rectangle.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-buffer
@kbd{ control e b }

Speak current buffer  contents.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.
 If voice lock mode is on, the paragraphs in the buffer are
voice annotated first,  see command `emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs'.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-current-window
Speak contents of current window.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-version
@kbd{ control e  cap V  }

Announce version information for running emacspeak.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-window-information
@kbd{ control e control w }

Speaks information about current window.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation
@kbd{ control e d i }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  audio indentation.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
Specifying the method of indentation as `tones'
results in the Dectalk producing a tone whose length is a function of the
line's indentation.  Specifying `speak'
results in the number of initial spaces being spoken.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-owindow-next-line
@kbd{ ESCAPE <down> }

Move to the next line in the other window and speak it.
Numeric prefix arg COUNT can specify number of lines to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-other-window
Speak contents of `other' window.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
Semantics  of `other' is the same as for the builtin Emacs command
`other-window'.
Optional argument ARG  specifies `other' window to speak.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-read-next-line
@kbd{ control e <down> }

Read next line, specified by an offset, without moving.
Default is to read the next line. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-read-next-word
Read next word, specified as a numeric  arg, without moving.
Default is to read the next word. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-speedbar
@section emacspeak-speedbar






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-speedbar.



@deffn emacspeak-speedbar-click
Does the equivalent of the mouse click from the keyboard
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar
Switch to the speedbar
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-table-ui
@section emacspeak-table-ui






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-table-ui.



@deffn emacspeak-table-get-entry-with-headers
Return   both row and column header and table element
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-dimensions
Speak current table dimensions.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-coordinates
Speak current table coordinates.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-previous-column
Move to the previous column  if possible
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-search-headers
Search the table row or column headers.  Interactively prompts for
row or column to search and pattern to look for.  If there is a
match, makes the matching row or column current.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-column-filtered
Speaks a table column after applying a specified column filter.
Optional prefix arg prompts for a new filter.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-find-file
@kbd{ control e control t }

Open a file containing table data and display it in table mode.
emacspeak table mode is designed to let you browse tabular data using
all the power of the two-dimensional spatial layout while giving you
sufficient contextual information.  The etc/tables subdirectory of the
emacspeak distribution contains some sample tables --these are the
CalTrain schedules.  Execute command `describe-mode' bound to
C-h m in a buffer that is in emacspeak table mode to read
the documentation on the table browser.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-register
Speak current table element

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-goto-right
Goes to the right of the current row.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-paste-from-clipboard
Paste the emacspeak table clipboard into the current buffer.
Use the major  mode of this buffer to  decide what kind of table
markup to use.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-search
Search the table for matching elements.  Interactively prompts for
row or column to search and pattern to look for.    If there is a match, makes
the matching cell current.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-column-header-and-element
Speak  column header and table element
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-ui-filter-save
Save out filter settings.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-goto
Prompt for a table cell coordinates and jump to it.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-select-automatic-speaking-method
Interactively select the kind of automatic speech to produce when
browsing table elements
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-copy-to-clipboard
Copy table in current buffer to the table clipboard.
Current buffer must be in emacspeak-table mode.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-row-header-and-element
Speak  row header and table element
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-goto-left
Goes to the left of the current row.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-next-column
Move to the next column if possible
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-both-headers-and-element
Speak  both row and column header and table element
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-goto-bottom
Goes to the bottom of the current column.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-ui-filter-load
Load saved filter settings.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-next-row
Move to the next row if possible
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-current-element
Speak current table element
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region
@kbd{ control e TAB }

Recognize tabular data in current region and display it in table
browsing mode in a a separate buffer.
emacspeak table mode is designed to let you browse tabular data using
all the power of the two-dimensional spatial layout while giving you
sufficient contextual information.  The tables subdirectory of the
emacspeak distribution contains some sample tables --these are the
CalTrain schedules.  Execute command `describe-mode' bound to
C-h m in a buffer that is in emacspeak table mode to read
the documentation on the table browser.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-sort-on-current-column
Sort table on current column. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-previous-row
Move to the previous row if possible
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-goto-top
Goes to the top of the current column.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-view-csv-buffer
Process a csv (comma separated values) data. 
The processed  data and presented using emacspeak table
navigation. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-find-csv-file
Process a csv (comma separated values) file. 
The processed  data and presented using emacspeak table navigation. 

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-table-speak-row-filtered
Speaks a table row after applying a specified row filter.
Optional prefix arg prompts for a new filter.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tabulate
@section emacspeak-tabulate






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tabulate.



@deffn emacspeak-tabulate-region
@kbd{ control e i }

Voicifies the white-space of a table if one found.  Optional interactive prefix
arg mark-fields specifies if the header row information is used to mark fields
in the white-space.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tapestry
@section emacspeak-tapestry






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tapestry.



@deffn emacspeak-tapestry-describe-tapestry
@kbd{ control e meta t }

Describe the current layout of visible buffers in current frame.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tar
@section emacspeak-tar






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tar.



@deffn emacspeak-tar-speak-file-permissions
Speak permissions of file current entry 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tar-speak-file-date
Speak date of file current entry 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tar-speak-file-size
Speak size of file current entry 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tetris
@section emacspeak-tetris






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tetris.



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape-and-coordinates
Speak shape orientation and coordinates
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-column
Speak  column --default is to speak current column
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-coordinates
Speak current position
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-goto-top-row
Move to and speak the top row
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-goto-bottom-row
Move to and speak bottom row
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-score
Speak the score
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-row-number
Speak where on the tetris board we are
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-x-coordinate
Speak current position
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape
Speak current shape
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-row
Speak current tetris row
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-tetris-speak-next-shape
Speak next shape
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tnt
@section emacspeak-tnt






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tnt.



@deffn emacspeak-tnt-toggle-autospeak
Toggle TNT autospeak for this chat session.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-url-template
@section emacspeak-url-template






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-url-template.



@deffn emacspeak-url-template-save
Save out url templates.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-url-template-fetch
@kbd{ control e u }

Fetch a pre-defined resource.
Use Emacs completion to obtain a list of available
resources.
Resources typically prompt for the relevant information
before completing the request.
Optional interactive prefix arg displays documentation for specified resource.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-url-template-load
Load URL template resources from specified location.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-url-template-help
Display documentation for  a URL template.
Use Emacs completion to obtain a list of available
resources.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-view
@section emacspeak-view






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-view.



@deffn emacspeak-view-line-to-top
Moves current line to top of window
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-view-process
@section emacspeak-view-process






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-view-process.



@deffn emacspeak-view-process-speak-current-field
Speak current field
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-view-process-goto-current-field-next-line
Set point to the current field in the next line.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-vm
@section emacspeak-vm






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-vm.



@deffn emacspeak-vm-speak-labels
Speak a message's labels
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-vm-mode-line
VM mode line information. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-vm-browse-message
Browse an email message --read it paragraph at a time. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-vm-locate-subject-line
Locates the subject line in a message being read.
Useful when you're reading a message
that has been forwarded multiple times.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-vm-next-button
Move point to N buttons forward.
If N is negative, move backward instead.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-w3
@section emacspeak-w3






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-w3.



@deffn emacspeak-w3-next-doc-element
Move forward  to the next document element.
Optional interactive prefix argument COUNT 
specifies by how many eleemnts to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-speak-this-element
Speak document element under point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-toggle-table-borders
Toggle drawing of W3 table borders
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-xslt-filter
Extract elements matching specified XPath path locator
from HTML.  Extracts specified elements from current WWW
page and displays it in a separate buffer.  Optional arg url
specifies the page to extract table from.  Interactive
prefix arg causes url to be read from the minibuffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-google-similar-to-this-page
Ask Google to find documents similar to this one.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-url-rewrite-and-follow
Apply a url rewrite rule as specified in the current buffer
before following link under point.  If no rewrite rule is
defined, first prompt for one.  Rewrite rules are of the
form `(from to)' where from and to are strings.  Typically,
the rewrite rule is automatically set up by Emacspeak tools
like websearch where a rewrite rule is known.  Rewrite rules
are useful in jumping directly to the printer friendly
version of an article for example.
Optional interactive prefix arg  prompts for a rewrite rule
even if one is already defined.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-speak-next-element
Speak next document element.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-jump-to-submit
Jump to next available submit button.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-xsl-toggle
Toggle  XSL transformations before displaying HTML.
This uses XSLT Processor xsltproc available as part of the
libxslt package.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-google-who-links-to-this-page
Perform a google search to locate documents that link to the
current page.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-lynx-url-under-point
Display contents of URL under point using LYNX.  The
document is displayed in a separate buffer. Note that the
hyperlinks in that display are not active-- this facility is
present only to help me iron out the remaining problems with
the table structure extraction code in W3.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-extract-table
Extract tables from HTML.  Extracts specified table from
current WWW page and displays it in a separate buffer.
Optional arg url specifies the page to extract table from.
Interactive prefix arg causes url to be read from the
minibuffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-xslt-select
Select transformation to apply.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-show-anchor-class
Display any class attributes set on corresponding anchor
element. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-jump-to-title-in-content
Jumps to the occurrence of document title in page body.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-extract-by-class
Extract elements having specified class attribute  from
HTML.  
Extracts specified elements from
current WWW page and displays it in a separate buffer.
Optional arg url specifies the page to extract table from.
Interactive prefix arg causes url to be read from the
minibuffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-javascript-follow-link
Follow URL hidden inside a javascript link
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-do-onclick
Do  onclick action.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-extract-node-by-id
Extract specified node from URI.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-previous-doc-element
Move back  to the previous document element.
Optional interactive prefix argument COUNT 
specifies by how many eleemnts to move.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-w3-xslt-apply
Apply specified transformation to current page.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-w3search
@section emacspeak-w3search






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-w3search.



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-blue-pages
Search IBM Blue Pages
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-ibm-internal
Search IBM My News
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-ibm-my-news
Search IBM My News
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-websearch
@section emacspeak-websearch






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-websearch.



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-inference-search
Perform an Inference search.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-google-usenet-advanced
Present Google Usenet advanced search form simplified for speech interaction.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-freshmeat-search
Search Freshmeat  Site. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-britannica-search
Search Encyclopedia Britannica.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-dispatch
@kbd{ control e ? }

Launches specific websearch queries.
Press `?' to list available search engines.
Once selected, the selected searcher prompts for additional information as appropriate.
When using W3,  this interface attempts to speak the most relevant information on the result page.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-google
Perform an Google search.
Optional interactive prefix arg `lucky' is equivalent to hitting the 
I'm Feeling Lucky button on Google.
Meaning of the `lucky' flag can be inverted by setting option emacspeak-websearch-google-feeling-lucky.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-emacspeak-archive
@kbd{ control h e }

Search Emacspeak mail archives.
For example to find messages about Redhat at the Emacspeak
archives, type +redhat
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-w3c-search
Search the W3C Site.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-citeseer-search
Perform a CiteSeer search. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-help
Displays key mapping used by Emacspeak Websearch.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-alltheweb-search
Perform an AllTheWeb  search.
Optional prefix arg prompts for type of search:
--use `all' `phrase' or  `any'
to specify the type of search.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-gutenberg
Perform an Gutenberg search
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-exchange-rate-convertor
Currency convertor.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-cnn-search
Perform an CNN search.  
Optional interactive prefix arg
prompts for additional search parameters.  The default is to
sort by date and show summaries.  To sort by relevance
specify additional parameter &rf=0.  To hide summaries,
specify additional parameter &lk=2.
You can customize the defaults by setting variable
emacspeak-websearch-cnn-options to an appropriate string.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-quotes-yahoo-search
Perform a Quotes Yahoo .  
Default tickers to look up is taken from variable
emacspeak-websearch-personal-portfolio.
Default is to present the data in emacspeak's table browsing
mode --optional interactive prefix arg
causes data to be displayed y W3 as a WWW page.
You can customize the defaults by setting variable
emacspeak-websearch-quotes-yahoo-options to an appropriate string.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-software-search
Search SourceForge, Freshmeat and other sites. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-display-form
Display form specified by form-markup.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-weather
Get weather forecast for specified zip code.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-altavista-search
Perform an Altavista search
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-foldoc-search
Perform a FolDoc search. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-news-yahoo
Perform an Yahoo News search
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-map-directions-search
Get driving directions from Yahoo.
With optional interactive prefix arg MAP shows the location map instead.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-rpm-find
Search RPM  catalog  site.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-bbc-search
Search BBC archives.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-historical-chart
Look up historical stock data.
Optional second arg as-html processes the results as HTML rather than data.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-usenet
@kbd{ control e  cap U  }

Prompt and browse a Usenet newsgroup.
Optional interactive prefix arg results in prompting for a search term.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-shoutcast-search
Ebay search.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-vickers-search
Search Vickers insider trading.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-google-feeling-lucky
Do a I'm Feeling Lucky Google search.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-biblio-search
Search Computer Science Bibliographies.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-ask-jeeves
Ask Jeeves for the answer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-fn-cnn-search
Perform an CNN FNsearch.  
Optional interactive prefix arg
prompts for additional search parameters.  The default is to
sort by date and show summaries.  To sort by relevance
specify additional parameter &rf=0.  To hide summaries,
specify additional parameter &lk=2.
You can customize the defaults by setting variable
emacspeak-websearch-fn-cnn-options to an appropriate string.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-cpan-search
Search CPAN  Comprehensive Perl Archive Network   Site. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-packages-linux
Search for Linux packages.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-real-tuner
Search using Real Tuner from Real Networks.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-open-directory-search
Perform an Open Directory search
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-appwatch-search
Search AppWatch  Site. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-streaming-audio-search
Search for streaming audio. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-redhat
Search RedHat site.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-sourceforge-search
Search SourceForge Site. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-amazon-search
Amazon search.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-vector-vest-search
Look up VectorVest reports .
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-people-yahoo
Perform an Yahoo  people search
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-hotbot-search
Perform a Hotbot  search.  
Optional interactive prefix arg
prompts for additional search parameters.  The default is to
sort by date and show summaries.  To sort by relevance
specify additional parameter &rf=0.  To hide summaries,
specify additional parameter &lk=2.
You can customize the defaults by setting variable
emacspeak-websearch-hotbot-options to an appropriate string.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-recorded-books-search
Present advanced search form for recorded books.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-yahoo
Perform an Yahoo  search
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-dictionary-hypertext-webster-search
Search the Webster Dictionary.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-machine-translate
Perform a machine translation request
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-merriam-webster-search
Search the Merriam Webster Dictionary.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-northern-light
Perform a Northern Light  search
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-ebay-search
Ebay search.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-google-advanced
Present Google advanced search form simplified for speech interaction.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-ctan-search
Search CTAN Comprehensive TeX Archive Network   Site. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-websearch-company-news
Perform an company news lookup.
Retrieves company news, research, profile, insider trades,  or upgrades/downgrades.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-widget
@section emacspeak-widget






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-widget.



@deffn emacspeak-widget-help
Speak help for widget under point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-widget-summarize-parent
Summarize parent of widget at point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-widget-browse-widget-interactively
Allows you to browse a widget
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-widget-update-from-minibuffer
Sets widget at point by invoking its prompter.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-widget-summarize-widget-under-point
Summarize a widget if any under point.
Optional interactive prefix specifies how many levels to go up from current
widget before summarizing.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-wizards
@section emacspeak-wizards






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-wizards.



@deffn emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-previous-display
@kbd{ control e <left> }

Speak this buffer as displayed in a `previous' window.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `previous'.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-rpm-query-in-dired
Run rpm -qi on current dired entry.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-use-w3-or-w3m
Alternates between using W3 and W3M for browse-url.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-browse-url-with-style
Browse URL with specified XSL style.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-next-frame
@kbd{ <control right> }

Move to next frame.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-show-list-variable
Convenience command to view Emacs variables that are long lists.
Prompts for a variable name and displays its value in a separate buffer.
Lists are displayed one element per line.
Argument VAR specifies variable whose value is to be displayed.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-view-emacspeak-doc
@kbd{ control e  cap D  }

Display a summary of all Emacspeak commands.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode
Major mode for browsing XL spreadsheets.


XL Sheets are converted to HTML and previewed using W3.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------


@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-view-emacspeak-faq
@kbd{ control e  cap F  }

Browse the Emacspeak FAQ.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart
For use in an emergency.
Will start TTS engine specified by 
emacspeak-emergency-tts-server.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-popup-messages
@kbd{ control h  cap M  }

Pop up messages buffer.
If it is already selected then hide it and try to restore
previous window configuration.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-forward
@kbd{ <shift down> }

Move forward across blank lines.
The line under point is then spoken.
Signals end of buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-url
Extract table specified by depth and count from HTML
content at URL.
Extracted content is placed as a csv file in task.csv.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-link-current-file
@kbd{ control e meta l }

Link (hard link) file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when linking.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Signals an error if target already exists.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-portfolio-quotes
Bring up detailed stock quotes for portfolio specified by 
emacspeak-websearch-personal-portfolio.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-lynx
Launch lynx on  specified URL in a new terminal.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-select-this-buffer-next-display
@kbd{ control e <control right> }

Select this buffer as displayed in a `next' frame.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `next'.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-view-emacspeak-tips
@kbd{ control e  cap T  }

Browse  Emacspeak productivity tips.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-file
Extract table specified by depth and count from HTML
content at file.
Extracted content is placed as a csv file in task.csv.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-xl-display
Called to set up preview of an XL file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .xls file.
Previews those contents as HTML and nukes the buffer
visiting the xls file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-select-this-buffer-previous-display
@kbd{ control e <control left> }

Select this buffer as displayed in a `previous' window.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `previous'.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-backward
@kbd{ <shift up> }

Move backward  across blank lines.
The line under point is   then spoken.
Signals beginning  of buffer.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-learn-mode
@kbd{ control e control h }

Helps you learn the keys.  You can press keys and hear what they do.
To leave, press C-g.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-hostname
@kbd{ control e meta h }

Speak host name.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-cvs-get-project-snapshot
Grab CVS snapshot  of specified project from Sourceforge.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-symlink-current-file
@kbd{ control e meta s }

Link (symbolic link) file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when linking.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Signals an error if target already exists.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-ppt-display
Called to set up preview of an XL file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .ppts file.
Previews those contents as HTML and nukes the buffer
visiting the ppts file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-run-shell-command
@kbd{ control e ! }

Invoke shell COMMAND and display its output as a table.  The results
are placed in a buffer in Emacspeak's table browsing mode.  Optional
interactive prefix arg as-root runs the command as root (not yet
implemented).  Use this for running shell commands that produce
tabulated output.  This command should be used for shell commands that
produce tabulated output that works with Emacspeak's table recognizer.
Verify this first by running the command in a shell and executing
command `emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region' normally bound to
C-e TAB.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces
@kbd{ control e  cap I  }

Shows all active network interfaces in the echo area.
With interactive prefix argument ADDRESS it prompts for a
specific interface and shows its address. The address is
also copied to the kill ring for convenient yanking.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode
Emacspeak Finder



This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------


@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-generate-documentation
Generate docs for all emacspeak commands.
Prompts for FILENAME in which to save the documentation.
Warning! Contents of file filename will be overwritten.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-frame-read-frame-label
Read a frame label with completion.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display
Switch  to this buffer as displayed in a different frame.  Emacs
allows you to display the same buffer in multiple windows or
frames.  These different windows can display different
portions of the buffer.  This is equivalent to leaving a
book open at places at once.  This command allows you to
move to the places where you have left the book open.  The
number used to invoke this command specifies which of the
displays you wish to select.  Typically you will have two or
at most three such displays open.  The current display is 0,
the next is 1, and so on.  Optional argument ARG specifies
the display to select.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-next-display
@kbd{ control e <right> }

Speak this buffer as displayed in a `previous' window.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `next'.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-cvs-get-anonymous
@kbd{ control e <control down> }

Get latest cvs snapshot of emacspeak.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-show-memory-used
Convenience command to view state of memory used in this session so far.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode
Major mode for browsing XL spreadsheets.


XL Sheets are converted to HTML and previewed using W3.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------


@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-frame-label-or-switch-to-labelled-frame
@kbd{ control e meta f }

Switch to labelled frame.
With optional PREFIX argument, label current frame.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-annotate-add-annotation
Add annotation to the annotation working buffer.
Prompt for annotation buffer if not already set.
Interactive prefix arg `reset' prompts for the annotation
buffer even if one is already set.
Annotation is entered in a temporary buffer and the
annotation is inserted into the working buffer when complete.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display
@kbd{ control e / }

Speak this buffer as displayed in a different frame.  Emacs
allows you to display the same buffer in multiple windows or
frames.  These different windows can display different
portions of the buffer.  This is equivalent to leaving a
book open at places at once.  This command allows you to
listen to the places where you have left the book open.  The
number used to invoke this command specifies which of the
displays you wish to speak.  Typically you will have two or
at most three such displays open.  The current display is 0,
the next is 1, and so on.  Optional argument ARG specifies
the display to speak.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-generate-finder
Generate a widget-enabled finder wizard.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-customize
@kbd{ control e  cap C  }

Customize Emacspeak.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-load-directory-settings
Load a directory specific Emacspeak settings file.
This is typically used to load up settings that are specific to
an electronic book consisting of many files in the same
directory.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-copy-current-file
@kbd{ control e meta c }

Copy file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when copying.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Asks for confirmation if the copy will result in an
  existing file being overwritten.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-clipboard-copy
@kbd{ control e control c }

Copy contents of the region to the emacspeak clipboard.
Previous contents of the clipboard will be overwritten.  The Emacspeak
clipboard is a convenient way of sharing information between
independent Emacspeak sessions running on the same or different
machines.  Do not use this for sharing information within an Emacs
session --Emacs' register commands are far more efficient and
light-weight.  Optional interactive prefix arg results in Emacspeak
prompting for the clipboard file to use.
Argument START and END specifies  region.
Optional argument PROMPT  specifies whether we prompt for the name of a clipboard file.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-root
@kbd{ control e control r }

Start a root shell or switch to one that already exists.
Optional interactive prefix arg `cd' executes cd
default-directory after switching.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-show-personality-at-point
@kbd{ control e meta v }

Show value of property personality at point.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-browse-linux-howto
@kbd{ control e  cap H  }

Browse a Linux Howto file.
We cleanup underlining, and set up outline mode correctly.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-previous-frame
@kbd{ <control left> }

Move to next frame.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-finder-find
Run find-dired on specified switches after prompting for the
directory to where find is to be launched.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-customize-personal-settings
@kbd{ control e <f1> }

Create a customization buffer for browsing and updating
personal customizations.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory
Lookup and display a phone number.
With prefix arg, opens the phone book for editting.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-view-emacspeak-news
@kbd{ control e  cap N  }

Display info on recent change to Emacspeak.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-generate-texinfo-command-documentation
Generate texinfo documentation  for all emacspeak
commands into file commands.texi.
Warning! Contents of file commands.texi will be overwritten.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-clipboard-paste
@kbd{ control e control y }

Yank contents of the Emacspeak clipboard at point.
The Emacspeak clipboard is a convenient way of sharing information between
independent Emacspeak sessions running on the same or different
machines.  Do not use this for sharing information within an Emacs
session --Emacs' register commands are far more efficient and
light-weight.  Optional interactive prefix arg pastes from
the emacspeak table clipboard instead.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-show-property-at-point
@kbd{ control e meta p }

Show value of PROPERTY at point.
If optional arg property is not supplied, read it interactively.
Provides completion based on properties that are of interest.
If no property is set, show a message and exit.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-wizards-shell-toggle
@kbd{ control e <f11> }

Switch to the shell buffer and cd to 
 the directory of the current buffer.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-xml-shell
@section emacspeak-xml-shell






Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-xml-shell.



@deffn emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent
Navigate up to the parent of current node.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children
Navigate down to the children of current node.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-xml-shell
Start Xml-Shell on contents of system-id.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-xml-shell-mode
XML Shell


Interactive XML browser.
key             binding
---             -------

C-c		Prefix Command
<down>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children
<up>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent
<right>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child
<left>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child

C-c v		emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current



In addition to any hooks its parent mode `comint-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-xml-shell-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child
Navigate backward  to the previous child  of current node.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current
Display current node.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child
Navigate forward  to the next child  of current node.
@end deffn





Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  nil.



@deffn emacspeak-w3-google-on-this-site
Perform a google search restricted to the current WWW site.
@end deffn



@deffn emacspeak-speak-current-field
@kbd{ control e . }

Speak current field.
A field is
defined  by Emacs 21.
@end deffn

