** Emacspeak Voice Lock Using Aural CSS (ACSS)

  0.   Emacspeak defines a number of voice overlays such as
=voice-bolden=, and =voice-lighten= that can be applied to a
given voice to change what it sounds like.

  1.   Voice overlays are defined in terms of Aural CSS ([[http://www.w3.org/tr/css2/aural.html][ACSS]]) to
keep them independent of a specific TTS engine.

  2.   For each such overlay there is a corresponding
=<overlay-name>-settings= variable that can be customized via
custom.

  3.    The numbers in =voice-bolden-settings as an example=:

Setting || Value
family | nil
average-pitch | 1
pitch-range | 6
stress | 6
richness | nil
punctuation | nil

Unset values (=nil=) show up as "unspecified" in the customize
interface.

  4.    Do not directly customize =voice-bolden= and friends, instead
customize the corresponding =voice-bolden-settings=, since that
ensures that all voices that are defined in terms of
=voice-bolden= get correctly updated.

  5.    Discovering what to customize:

Command =emacspeak-show-personality-at-point= (bound by default
to C-e M-v) will show you the value of properties personality and
face at point. A recent update I implemented last weekend makes
this more useful, so make sure you do a CVS update; earlier this
command used to display the ACSS setting --- now it displays the
abstract name. Describe-variable on these names should tell you
what to customize; so as an example:

Put point on a comment line, and hit =C-e M-v=:
you will hear 

<example>
Personality emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality
Face font-lock-comment-delimiter-face  
</example>

Describe-variable of =emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality= gives:

<example>
emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality's value is acss-p0-s0-all

Documentation:
Personality used for font-lock-comment-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

</example>


** How It All Works

Here is a brief explanation of the connection between
=voice-bolden= and its associated =voice-bolden-settings=.


  0.       Voice  settings are initially in =voice-bolden-settings= which is a list
of numbers.

  1.      That list of numbers needs to be translated to appropriate
device-specific codes to send to the TTS engine.

  2.     You do not want to do this translation *each* time you
speak something.

  3.     So when =voice-bolden= is defined, the definition happens in
two steps:

  -    The list of settings is stored away in
=voice-bolden-settings=,
  - A corresponding voice-name is generated ---
=acss-a<n>-p<n>-r<n>-s<n>= and the corresponding control codes to
send to the device are stored away in a hash-table keyed by the above symbol.

  - Finally, =voice-bolden= is assigned the above symbol.

*** What this gives is:

  0.     The ability to customize the voice via custom by editting
the list of numbers in =voice-bolden-settings=

  2.    When that list is editted, =voice-bolden= is arranged to be
updated automatically.
