
@node Voice Lock
@chapter Voice Lock

@enumerate
@item
Emacspeak defines a number of voice overlays such as
@samp{voice-bolden}, and @samp{voice-lighten} that can be applied to a
given voice to change what it sounds like.

@item
Voice overlays are defined in terms of Aural CSS (@uref{http://www.w3.org/tr/css2/aural.html, ACSS}) to
keep them independent of a specific TTS engine.

@item
For each such overlay there is a corresponding
@samp{<overlay-name>-settings} variable that can be customized via
custom.

@item
The numbers in @samp{voice-bolden-settings as an example}:
@end enumerate

@multitable @columnfractions 0.5 0.5
@item Setting @tab Value
@item family @tab nil
@item average-pitch @tab 1
@item pitch-range @tab 6
@item stress @tab 6
@item richness @tab nil
@item punctuation @tab nil
@end multitable
Unset values (@samp{nil}) show up as ``unspecified'' in the customize
interface.

@enumerate
@item
Do not directly customize @samp{voice-bolden} and friends, instead
customize the corresponding @samp{voice-bolden-settings}, since that
ensures that all voices that are defined in terms of
@samp{voice-bolden} get correctly updated.

@item
Discovering what to customize:
@end enumerate

Command @samp{emacspeak-show-personality-at-point} (bound by default
to C-e M-v) will show you the value of properties personality and
face at point. A recent update I implemented last weekend makes
this more useful, so make sure you do a CVS update; earlier this
command used to display the ACSS setting --- now it displays the
abstract name. Describe-variable on these names should tell you
what to customize; so as an example:

Put point on a comment line, and hit @samp{C-e M-v}:
you will hear

@example
Personality emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality
Face font-lock-comment-delimiter-face
@end example

Describe-variable of @samp{emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality} gives:

@example
emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality's value is acss-p0-s0-all

Documentation:
Personality used for font-lock-comment-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end example



@menu
* How It All Works.::           
* What this gives.::            
@end menu

@node How It All Works.
@section How It All Works

Here is a brief explanation of the connection between
@samp{voice-bolden} and its associated @samp{voice-bolden-settings}.


@enumerate
@item
Voice  settings are initially in @samp{voice-bolden-settings} which is a list
of numbers.

@item
That list of numbers needs to be translated to appropriate
device-specific codes to send to the TTS engine.

@item
You do not want to do this translation @emph{each} time you
speak something.

@item
So when @samp{voice-bolden} is defined, the definition happens in
two steps:
@end enumerate

@itemize @bullet
@item
The list of settings is stored away in
@samp{voice-bolden-settings},
@item
A corresponding voice-name is generated ---
@samp{acss-a<n>-p<n>-r<n>-s<n>} and the corresponding control codes to
send to the device are stored away in a hash-table keyed by the above symbol.

@item
Finally, @samp{voice-bolden} is assigned the above symbol.
@end itemize

@menu
* What this gives.::            
@end menu

@node What this gives.
@section What this gives is

@enumerate
@item
The ability to customize the voice via custom by editting
the list of numbers in @samp{voice-bolden-settings}

@item
When that list is editted, @samp{voice-bolden} is arranged to be
updated automatically.
@end enumerate

The following additional commands from module @xref{emacspeak-wizards}
are  useful when designing aural styles.
@enumerate

@item 
emacspeak-wizards-generate-voice-sampler 
 
Generate a buffer containing text that demonstrates the effect of
various aural settings.






@item 
emacspeak-wizards-voice-sampler
 

Applied specified aural style to text in current region.
@end enumerate
