@c $Id$
@node Emacspeak Commands
@chapter Emacspeak Commands

This chapter is generated automatically from the source-level documentation.
Any errors or corrections should be made to the source-level
documentation.
This chapter documents a total of 687 commands.

@menu
* cd-tool::                     
* dtk-speak::                   
* emacspeak::                   
* emacspeak-alsaplayer::        
* emacspeak-amphetadesk::       
* emacspeak-arc::               
* emacspeak-aumix::             
* emacspeak-bs::                
* emacspeak-buff-menu::         
* emacspeak-c::                 
* emacspeak-calendar::          
* emacspeak-compile::           
* emacspeak-custom::            
* emacspeak-daisy::             
* emacspeak-dired::             
* emacspeak-dismal::            
* emacspeak-ecb::               
* emacspeak-ediff::             
* emacspeak-emms::              
* emacspeak-enriched::          
* emacspeak-entertain::         
* emacspeak-eperiodic::         
* emacspeak-erc::               
* emacspeak-eterm::             
* emacspeak-eudc::              
* emacspeak-filtertext::        
* emacspeak-fix-interactive::   
* emacspeak-forms::             
* emacspeak-freeamp::           
* emacspeak-gnus::              
* emacspeak-gomoku::            
* emacspeak-gridtext::          
* emacspeak-hide::              
* emacspeak-ibuffer::           
* emacspeak-imcom::             
* emacspeak-imenu::             
* emacspeak-info::              
* emacspeak-keymap::            
* emacspeak-kotl::              
* emacspeak-loaddefs::          
* emacspeak-m-player::          
* emacspeak-madplay::           
* emacspeak-man::               
* emacspeak-mpg123::            
* emacspeak-ocr::               
* emacspeak-outline::           
* emacspeak-pronounce::         
* emacspeak-psgml::             
* emacspeak-python::            
* emacspeak-realaudio::         
* emacspeak-redefine::          
* emacspeak-remote::            
* emacspeak-rss::               
* emacspeak-solitaire::         
* emacspeak-sounds::            
* emacspeak-speak::             
* emacspeak-speedbar::          
* emacspeak-table-ui::          
* emacspeak-tabulate::          
* emacspeak-tapestry::          
* emacspeak-tar::               
* emacspeak-tetris::            
* emacspeak-tnt::               
* emacspeak-url-template::      
* emacspeak-view::              
* emacspeak-view-process::      
* emacspeak-vm::                
* emacspeak-w3::                
* emacspeak-w3search::          
* emacspeak-websearch::         
* emacspeak-widget::            
* emacspeak-wizards::           
* emacspeak-xml-shell::         
* URL Templates ::              
@end menu

@node cd-tool
@section cd-tool

Commentary:
Provide an emacs front-end to cdtool.
cdtool can be obtained as an rpm
check using rpmfind
or from its home site at 
  sunsite.unc.edu /pub/Linux/apps/sound/cdrom/cli
This module also provides the ability to play or save 
clips from a CD if you have cdda2wav installed.
cdda2wav is a cd to wav convertor.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  cd-tool.

@deffn {Interactive Command} cd-tool ()
@kbd{ control e DEL }

Front-end to CDTool.
Bind this function to a convenient key-
Emacspeak users automatically have 
this bound to <DEL> in the emacspeak keymap.

Key     Action
---     ------

+       Next Track
-       Previous Track
SPC     Pause or Resume
e       Eject
=       Shuffle
i       CD Info
p       Play
s       Stop
t       track
c       clip
cap C   Save clip to disk

@end deffn

@node dtk-speak
@section dtk-speak

Commentary:
Defines the TTS interface.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  dtk-speak.

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-add-cleanup-pattern (&optional DELETE)
@kbd{ control e d a }

Add this pattern to the list of repeating patterns that
are cleaned up.  Optional interactive prefix arg deletes
this pattern if previously added.  Cleaning up repeated
patterns results in emacspeak speaking the pattern followed
by a repeat count instead of speaking all the characters
making up the pattern.  Thus, by adding the repeating
pattern `.' (this is already added by default) emacspeak
will say ``aw fifteen dot'' when speaking the string
``...............'' instead of ``period period period period
''
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-notes-shutdown ()
Shutdown midi system.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-pause (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e p }

Pause ongoing speech.
The speech can be resumed with command `dtk-resume'
normally bound to C-e SPC.  Pausing speech is useful when one needs to
perform a few actions before continuing to read a large document.  Emacspeak
gives you speech feedback as usual once speech has been paused.  `dtk-resume'
continues the interrupted speech irrespective of the buffer
in which it is executed.
Optional PREFIX arg flushes any previously paused speech.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-reset-state ()
@kbd{ control e d  cap R  }

Restore sanity to the Dectalk.
Typically used after the Dectalk has been power   cycled.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-resume ()
@kbd{ control e SPACE }

Resume paused speech.
This command resumes  speech that has been suspended by executing
command `dtk-pause' bound to C-e p.
If speech has not been paused,
and variable `dtk-resume-should-toggle' is t
 then this command will pause ongoing speech.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-select-server (PROGRAM)
@kbd{ control e d d }

Select a speech server interactively.
Argument PROGRAM specifies the speech server program.
When called  interactively, The selected server is started immediately. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-set-character-scale (FACTOR &optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d f }

Set scale FACTOR for   speech rate.
Speech rate is scaled by this factor
when speaking characters.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-set-chunk-separator-syntax (S)
@kbd{ control e d RETURN }

Interactively set how text is split in chunks.
See the Emacs documentation on syntax tables for details on how characters are
classified into various syntactic classes.
Argument S specifies the syntax class.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d 9   control e d 8   control e d 7   control e d 6   control e d 5   control e d 4   control e d 3   control e d 2   control e d 1   control e d 0 }

Set speech rate to one of nine predefined levels.
Interactive PREFIX arg says to set the rate globally.
Formula used is:
rate = dtk-speech-rate-base + dtk-speech-rate-step * level.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-set-punctuations (MODE &optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d p }

Set punctuation mode to MODE.
Possible values are `some', `all', or `none'.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-set-punctuations-to-all (&optional PREFIX)
Set punctuation  mode to all.
Interactive PREFIX arg sets punctuation mode globally.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-set-punctuations-to-some (&optional PREFIX)
Set punctuation  mode to some.
Interactive PREFIX arg sets punctuation mode globally.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-set-rate (RATE &optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d r }

Set speaking RATE for the tts.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-stop ()
@kbd{ <pause>   control e s }

Stop speech now.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-allcaps-beep (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d  cap C  }

Toggle allcaps-beep.
when set, allcaps words  are  indicated by a
short beep.  Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
Note that allcaps-beep is a very useful thing when programming.
However it is irritating to have it on when reading documents.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-capitalization (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d c }

Toggle capitalization.
when set, capitalization is indicated by a
short beep.  Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-debug (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d b }

Toggle state of the debug FLAG.
When debugging is on, you can switch to the buffer
*speaker* to examine the output from the process
that talks to the speech device by using command C-e d C-M-b.
Note: *speaker* is a hidden buffer, ie it has a leading space in its name.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-punctuation-mode (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle punctuation mode between "some" and "all".
Interactive PREFIX arg makes the new setting global.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-quiet (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d q }

Toggles state of  dtk-quiet.
Turning on this switch silences speech.
Optional interactive prefix arg causes this setting to become global.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d n }

Toggle speak-nonprinting-chars.
Switches behavior of how characters with the high bit set are handled.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-split-caps (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d s }

Toggle split caps mode.
Split caps mode is useful when reading
Hungarian notation in program source code.  Interactive PREFIX arg
means toggle the global default value, and then set the current local
value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-splitting-on-white-space ()
@kbd{ control e d SPACE }

Toggle splitting of speech on white space.
This affects the internal state of emacspeak that decides if we split
text purely by clause boundaries, or also include
whitespace.  By default, emacspeak sends a clause at a time
to the speech device.  This produces fluent speech for
normal use.  However in modes such as `shell-mode' and some
programming language modes, clause markers appear
infrequently, and this can result in large amounts of text
being sent to the speech device at once, making the system
unresponsive when asked to stop talking.  Splitting on white
space makes emacspeak's stop command responsive.  However,
when splitting on white space, the speech sounds choppy
since the synthesizer is getting a word at a time.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} dtk-toggle-stop-immediately-while-typing (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d  cap I  }

Toggle state of variable `dtk-stop-immediately-while-typing'.
As the name implies, if T then speech flushes immediately as you
type.  Optional argument PREFIX specifies if the setting applies
to all buffers.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak
@section emacspeak

Commentary:
The complete audio desktop.

Emacspeak extends Emacs to be a fully functional audio desktop.
This is the main emacspeak module.
It actually does very little:
It loads the various parts of the system.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-describe-emacspeak ()
@kbd{ control h control e   <f1> control e   <help> control e }

Give a brief overview of emacspeak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-submit-bug ()
@kbd{ control e CONTROL meta b }

Function to submit a bug to the programs maintainer.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-alsaplayer
@section emacspeak-alsaplayer

Commentary:
Defines a simple derived mode for interacting with
alsaplayer.
alsaplayer navigation commands  work via single keystrokes.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-alsaplayer.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-add-to-queue (RESOURCE)
Add specified resource to queue.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-backward-minute (MINUTES)
Skip backwards by  minutes.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-backward-second (SECONDS)
Skip backward by  seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-backward-ten-minutes (MINUTES)
Skip backwards by  chunks of minutes.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-clear ()
Clear or resume alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-forward-minute (MINUTES)
Skip forward by  minutes.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-forward-second (SECONDS)
Skip forward by  seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-forward-ten-minutes (MINUTES)
Skip forward by  chunks of ten minutes.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-jump (TRACK)
Jump to specified track.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-launch ()
Launch Alsaplayer.
user is placed in a buffer associated with the newly created
Alsaplayer session.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-mode ()
Major mode for alsaplayer interaction. 

key             binding
---             -------

v		emacspeak-alsaplayer-volume
?		emacspeak-alsaplayer-status
/		emacspeak-alsaplayer-speed
S		emacspeak-alsaplayer-stop
s		emacspeak-alsaplayer-start
r		emacspeak-alsaplayer-relative
q		emacspeak-alsaplayer-quit
p		emacspeak-alsaplayer-previous
n		emacspeak-alsaplayer-next
SPC		emacspeak-alsaplayer-pause
l		emacspeak-alsaplayer-launch
j		emacspeak-alsaplayer-jump
g		emacspeak-alsaplayer-seek
c		emacspeak-alsaplayer-clear
A		emacspeak-alsaplayer-replace-queue
a		emacspeak-alsaplayer-add-to-queue
[		emacspeak-alsaplayer-backward-ten-minutes
]		emacspeak-alsaplayer-forward-ten-minutes
<		emacspeak-alsaplayer-backward-minute
>		emacspeak-alsaplayer-forward-minute
,		emacspeak-alsaplayer-backward-second
.		emacspeak-alsaplayer-forward-second

This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-alsaplayer-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-next ()
Next  alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-pause ()
Pause or resume alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-previous ()
Previous  alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-quit ()
Quit or resume alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-relative (OFFSET)
Relative seek  alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-replace-queue (RESOURCE)
Add specified resource to queue.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-seek (OFFSET)
Absolute seek  alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-speed (SETTING)
Set speed in alsaplayer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-start ()
Start  alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-status ()
Show alsaplayer status
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-stop ()
Stop  alsaplayer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-alsaplayer-volume (SETTING)
Set volume.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-amphetadesk
@section emacspeak-amphetadesk

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-amphetadesk.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-amphetadesk ()
Open amphetadesk.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-amphetadesk-quick-add (URL)
Quick add URL to Amphetadesk by prompting for URL.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-arc
@section emacspeak-arc

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-arc.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-modification-time ()
Speak modification time of the file on current line
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-name ()
Speak the name of the file on current line
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-permissions ()
Speak permissions of file current entry 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-size ()
Speak the size of the file on current line
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-aumix
@section emacspeak-aumix

Commentary:
Provides an AUI to setting up the auditory display via AUMIX
This module is presently Linux specific

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-aumix.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-aumix ()
@kbd{ control e ( }

Setup output parameters of the auditory display.
 Launch this tool while you have auditory output on
multiple channels playing so you can
adjust the settings to your preference.  Hit q to quit when
you are done.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-aumix-edit ()
Edit aumix settings interactively. 
Run command M-x emacspeak-aumix-reset
after saving the settings to have them take effect.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-aumix-reset ()
Reset to default audio settings.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-aumix-volume-decrease (&optional GAIN)
Decrease overall volume. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-aumix-volume-increase (&optional GAIN)
Increase overall volume. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease (&optional GAIN)
@kbd{ control e control f <left> }

Decrease volume of wave output. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase (&optional GAIN)
@kbd{ control e control f <right> }

Increase volume of wave output. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-bs
@section emacspeak-bs

Commentary:
speech-enable bs.el
this is an alternative to list-buffers

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-bs.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-bs-speak-buffer-line ()
Speak information about this buffer
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-buff-menu
@section emacspeak-buff-menu

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-buff-menu.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-next-line (COUNT)
Speech enabled buffer menu navigation
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-previous-line (COUNT)
Speech enabled buffer menu navigation
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-line ()
Speak information about this buffer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-name ()
Speak the name of the buffer on this line
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-c
@section emacspeak-c

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-c.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-c-speak-semantics ()
Speak the C semantics of this line. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-calendar
@section emacspeak-calendar

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-calendar.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-appt-repeat-announcement ()
@kbd{ control e  cap A  }

Speaks the most recently displayed appointment message if any.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-calendar-date ()
Speak the date under point when called in Calendar Mode. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-compile
@section emacspeak-compile

Commentary:
This module makes compiling code from inside Emacs speech friendly.
It is an example of how a little amount of code can make Emacspeak even better.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-compile.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-compilation-speak-error ()
Speech feedback about the compilation error. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-custom
@section emacspeak-custom

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-custom.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-custom-goto-group ()
Jump to custom group when in a customization buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-custom-goto-toolbar ()
Jump to custom toolbar when in a customization buffer.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-daisy
@section emacspeak-daisy

Commentary:
Daisy Digital Talking Book Reader

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-daisy.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-define-outline-pattern (REGEXP)
Define persistent outline regexp for this book.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-mark-position-in-content-under-point ()
Mark current position in displayed content.
No-op if content under point is not currently displayed.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-mode ()
A DAISY front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.

Pre-requisites:

0) mpg123 for playing mp3 files
1) libxml and libxslt packages 
2) xml-parse.el for parsing XML in Emacs Lisp.

The Emacspeak DAISY front-end is launched by command
emacspeak-daisy-open-book  bound to C-e C-b.  

This command switches to a special buffer that has DAISY
commands bounds to single keystrokes-- see the ke-binding
list at the end of this description.  Use Emacs online help
facility to look up help on these commands.

emacspeak-daisy-mode provides the necessary functionality to
navigate and listen to Daisy talking books. 

Here is a list of all emacspeak DAISY commands along with their key-bindings:

key             binding
---             -------

P		emacspeak-daisy-play-page-range
RET		emacspeak-daisy-play-content-under-point
SPC		emacspeak-daisy-play-audio-under-point
q		bury-buffer
S		emacspeak-daisy-save-bookmarks
o		emacspeak-daisy-define-outline-pattern
p		emacspeak-daisy-previous-line
n		emacspeak-daisy-next-line
s		emacspeak-daisy-stop-audio
m		emacspeak-daisy-mark-position-in-content-under-point
?		describe-mode

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-daisy-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-next-line ()
Move to next line.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-open-book (FILENAME)
@kbd{ control e control b }

Open Digital Talking Book specified by navigation file filename.

This is the main entry point to the  Emacspeak Daisy reader.
Opening a Daisy navigation file (.ncx file) results in a
navigation buffer that can be used to browse and read the book.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-play-audio-under-point ()
Play audio clip under point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-play-content-under-point ()
Play SMIL content  under point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-play-page-range (START END)
Play pages in specified page range.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-previous-line ()
Move to previous line.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-save-bookmarks ()
Save bookmarks for current book.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-daisy-stop-audio ()
Stop audio.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-dired
@section emacspeak-dired

Commentary:
This module speech enables dired.
It reduces the amount of speech you hear:
Typically you hear the file names as you move through the dired buffer
Voicification is used to indicate directories, marked files etc.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-dired.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-label-fields ()
Labels the fields of the listing in the dired buffer.
Currently is a no-op  unless
unless `dired-listing-switches' contains -al
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-show-file-type (&optional FILE DEREF-SYMLINKS)
Displays type of current file by running command file.
Like Emacs' built-in dired-show-file-type but allows user to customize
options passed to command `file'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-access-time ()
Speak access time  of the current file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-modification-time ()
Speak modification time  of the current file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-permissions ()
Speak the permissions of the current file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-size ()
Speak the size of the current file.
On a directory line, run du -s on the directory to speak its size.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-header-line ()
Speak the header line of the dired buffer. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-symlink-target ()
Speaks the target of the symlink on the current line.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-dismal
@section emacspeak-dismal

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-dismal.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-backward-col-and-summarize (COLS)
Move backward by arg columns
 (the previous column by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-backward-row-and-summarize (ROWS)
Move backward by arg rows
 (the previous row by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-col-summarize ()
Summarizes a col using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-col-summarizer-list
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-expression ()
Display the expression in the message area
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-value ()
Display the cell value in the message area
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-col-header ()
Display current cell along with its column header.
The `column header' is the entry in row 0.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-row-header ()
Displays current cell along with its row header.
The `row header' is the entry in column 0.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-forward-col-and-summarize (COLS)
Move forward by arg columns
 (the next column by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-forward-row-and-summarize (ROWS)
Move forward by arg rows
 (the next row by default)and summarize it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-row-summarize ()
Summarizes a row using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-row-summarizer-list
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-set-col-summarizer-list ()
Specify or reset col summarizer list.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-set-row-summarizer-list ()
Specify or reset row summarizer list.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-set-sheet-summarizer-list ()
Specify or reset sheet summarizer list.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarize ()
Summarizes a sheet using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarizer-list
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ecb
@section emacspeak-ecb

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ecb.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-directories ()
Speak contents of directories window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-history ()
Speak contents of history window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-methods ()
Speak contents of methods window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-sources ()
Speak contents of sources window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-tree-backspace ()
Back up during incremental search in tree buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-tree-clear ()
Clear search pattern during incremental search in tree buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-tree-expand-common-prefix ()
Expand to longest common prefix in tree buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ecb-tree-shift-return ()
Do shift return in ECB tree browser.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ediff
@section emacspeak-ediff

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ediff.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ediff-speak-current-difference ()
Speak the current difference
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-emms
@section emacspeak-emms

Commentary:
Speech-enables EMMS --- the Emacs equivalent of XMMS
See
http://savannah.gnu.org/project/emms
EMMS is under active development,
to get the current CVS version, use Emacspeak command
M-x emacspeak-cvs-gnu-get-project-snapshot RET emms RET

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-emms.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-emms-speak-current-track ()
Speak current track.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-enriched
@section emacspeak-enriched

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-enriched.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-enriched-voiceify-faces (START END)
Map base fonts to voices.
Useful in voicifying rich text.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-entertain
@section emacspeak-entertain

Commentary:
Auditory interface to misc games

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-entertain.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-hangman-speak-guess ()
Speak current guessed string. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-hangman-speak-statistics ()
Speak statistics.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-eperiodic
@section emacspeak-eperiodic

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-eperiodic.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-goto-property-section ()
Mark position and jump to properties section.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-next-line ()
Move to next row and speak element.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-previous-line ()
Move to next row and speak element.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-speak-current-element ()
Speak element at point.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-erc
@section emacspeak-erc

Commentary:
erc.el is a modern Emacs client for IRC including color
and font locking support. 
erc.el - an Emacs IRC client (by Alexander L. Belikoff)
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~berez/irc/erc.el

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-erc.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-erc-add-name-to-monitor (NAME &optional QUITEN-PRONUNCIATION)
Add people to moniter in this room.
Optional interactive prefix  arg defines a pronunciation that
  silences speaking of this perso's name.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-erc-delete-name-from-monitor (NAME)
Remove name to monitor in this room.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-erc-setup-cricket-rules ()
Set up #cricket channels.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-erc-toggle-my-monitor (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle state of ERC  monitor of my messages.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-erc-toggle-room-monitor (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle state of ERC room monitor.
Interactive 
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-erc-toggle-speak-all-participants (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle state of ERC speak all participants..
Interactive 
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-eterm
@section emacspeak-eterm

Commentary:
This module makes eterm talk.
Eterm is the new terminal emulator for Emacs.
Use of emacspeak with eterm really needs an info page.
At present, the only documentation is the source level documentation.
This module uses Control-t as an additional prefix key to allow the user
To move around the terminal and have different parts spoken. 

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-eterm.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-copy-region-to-register (REGISTER)
Copy text from terminal to an Emacs REGISTER.
This copies  region delimited by the emacspeak eterm marker 
set by command M-x emacspeak-eterm-set-marker and the 
emacspeak eterm pointer to a register.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-define-window (ID)
Prompt for a window ID.
The window is then define to be
the rectangle delimited by point and eterm mark.  This is to
be used when emacspeak is set to review mode inside an
eterm.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-describe-window (ID)
Describe an eterm  window.
Description indicates eterm window coordinates and whether it is stretchable
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-goto-line (LINE)
Move emacspeak eterm pointer to a specified LINE.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-kill-ring-save-region ()
Copy text from terminal to kill ring.
This copies  region delimited by the emacspeak eterm marker 
set by command M-x emacspeak-eterm-set-marker and the 
emacspeak eterm pointer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-maybe-send-raw ()
Send a raw character through if in the terminal buffer.
Execute end of line if
in a non eterm buffer if executed via C-e C-e
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-paste-register (REGISTER)
Paste contents of REGISTER at current location.
If the specified register contains text, then that text is
sent to the terminal as if it were typed by the user.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-backward-word (COUNT)
Move the pointer backward  by words. 
Interactive numeric prefix arg specifies number of words to move.
Argument COUNT specifies number of words by which to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-down (COUNT)
Move the pointer down a line.
Argument COUNT specifies number of lines by which to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-forward-word (COUNT)
Move the pointer forward by words. 
Interactive numeric prefix arg specifies number of words to move.
Argument COUNT specifies number of words by which to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-left (COUNT)
Move the pointer left.
Argument COUNT specifies number of columns by which to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-right (COUNT)
Move the pointer right.
Argument COUNT specifies number of columns by which to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-bottom ()
Move the pointer to the bottom  of the screen.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-cursor ()
Move the pointer to the cursor.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-left-edge ()
Move the pointer to the right edge.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-next-color-change (&optional COUNT)
Move the eterm pointer to the next color change.
This allows you to move between highlighted regions of the screen.
Optional argument COUNT specifies how many changes to skip.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-previous-color-change (&optional COUNT)
Move the eterm pointer to the next color change.
This allows you to move between highlighted regions of the screen.
Optional argument COUNT specifies how many changes to skip.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-right-edge ()
Move the pointer to the right edge.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-top ()
Move the pointer to the top of the screen.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-up (COUNT)
Move the pointer up a line.
Argument COUNT .specifies number of lines by which to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-remote-term (HOST)
@kbd{ control e CONTROL meta r }

Start a terminal-emulator in a new buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-search-backward ()
Search backward on the terminal.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-search-forward ()
Search forward on the terminal.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-set-filter-window (FLAG)
Prompt for the id of a predefined window,
and set the `filter' window to it.
Non-nil interactive prefix arg `unsets' the filter window;
this is equivalent to having the entire terminal as the filter window (this is
what eterm starts up with).
Setting the filter window results in emacspeak  only monitoring screen
activity within the filter window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-set-focus-window (FLAG)
Prompt for the id of a predefined window,
and set the `focus' window to it.
Non-nil interactive prefix arg `unsets' the focus window;
this is equivalent to having the entire terminal as the focus window (this is
what eterm starts up with).
Setting the focus window results in emacspeak  monitoring screen
and speaking that window upon seeing screen activity.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-set-marker ()
Set Emacspeak eterm marker.
This sets  the emacspeak eterm marker to the position pointed 
to by the emacspeak eterm pointer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-cursor ()
Speak cursor position.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer ()
Speak current pointer position.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-char (&optional PREFIX)
Speak char under eterm pointer.
Pronounces character phonetically unless  called with a PREFIX arg.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-line ()
Speak the line the pointer is on.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-word ()
Speak the word  the pointer is on.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-predefined-window ()
Speak a predefined eterm window between 1 and 10.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-screen (&optional FLAG)
Speak the screen.  Default is to speak from the emacspeak pointer  to point.
Optional prefix arg FLAG causes region above
the Emacspeak pointer to be spoken.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-window (ID)
Speak an eterm window.
Argument ID specifies the window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-filter-window ()
Toggle active state of filter window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-focus-window ()
Toggle active state of focus window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-pointer-mode (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle emacspeak eterm pointer mode.
With optional interactive prefix  arg, turn it on.
When emacspeak eterm is in pointer mode, the eterm read pointer
stays where it is rather than automatically moving to the terminal cursor when
there is terminal activity.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-review ()
Toggle state of eterm review. 
In review mode, you can move around the terminal and listen to the contnets 
without sending input to the terminal itself.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eterm-yank-window (ID)
Yank contents of  an eterm window at point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-eterm-autospeak (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle state of eterm autospeak.
When eterm autospeak is turned on and the terminal is in line mode,
all output to the terminal is automatically spoken. 
  Interactive prefix arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
  current local  value to the result. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-eudc
@section emacspeak-eudc

Commentary:
EUDC --Emacs Universal Directory Client 
provides a unified interface to directory servers
e.g. ldap servers
this module speech enables eudc 

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-eudc.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-eudc-send-mail ()
Send email to the address given by the current record. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-filtertext
@section emacspeak-filtertext

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-filtertext.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-filtertext (START END)
@kbd{ control e ^ }

Copy over text in region to special filtertext buffer in
preparation for interactively filtering text. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-filtertext-mode ()
Major mode for FilterText interaction. 

key             binding
---             -------

r		emacspeak-filtertext-revert
^		flush-lines
=		keep-lines

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-filtertext-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-filtertext-revert ()
Revert to original text.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-fix-interactive
@section emacspeak-fix-interactive

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-fix-interactive.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-fix-all-recent-commands ()
Fix recently loaded interactive commands.
This command looks through `load-history' and fixes commands if necessary.
Memoizes call in emacspeak-load-history-pointer to memoize this call. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-fix-commands-loaded-from (MODULE)
Fix all commands loaded from a specified module.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-forms
@section emacspeak-forms

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-forms.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-forms-find-file (FILENAME)
Visit a forms file
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-forms-flush-unwanted-records ()
Prompt for pattern and flush matching lines
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-forms-rerun-filter ()
Rerun  filter --allows us to nuke more matching records
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-forms-speak-field ()
Speak current form field name and value.
Assumes that point is at the front of a field value.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-position ()
Summarize current position in list of records
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-record ()
Summarize current record
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-freeamp
@section emacspeak-freeamp

Commentary:
Defines a simple derived mode for interacting with
freeamp.
If you use freeamp  as your mp3 player from w3 for
example,
put the buffer containing freeamp in freeamp-mode.
freeamp navigation commands then work via single keystrokes.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-freeamp.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command ()
@kbd{ control e control f q   control e control f =   control e control f s   control e control f b   control e control f f   control e control f -   control e control f +   control e control f p }

Call appropriate freeamp command.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-command (CHAR)
Execute FreeAmp command.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-freeamp-mode ()
Major mode for freeamp interaction. 

key             binding
---             -------

<right>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase
<left>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease
q		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
=		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
s		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
b		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
f		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
-		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
+		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
p		emacspeak-freeamp-freeamp-call-command
o		emacspeak-freeamp

This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-freeamp-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-gnus
@section emacspeak-gnus

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-gnus.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gnus-summary-catchup-quietly-and-exit ()
Catch up on all articles in current group.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-gomoku
@section emacspeak-gomoku

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-gomoku.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-display-statistics ()
Display statistics from previous games
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-goto-x-y (X Y)
Prompt for and go to that square.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-column ()
Aurally display current column
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-negative-diagonal ()
Aurally display current negative sloped diagonal 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-positive-diagonal ()
Aurally display current positively sloped diagonal
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-row ()
Aurally display current row
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-emacs-previous-move ()
Speak emacs' previous move
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-humans-previous-move ()
Speak human' previous move
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-number-of-moves ()
Speak number of moves so far
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-square ()
Speak coordinates and state of square at point
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-gridtext
@section emacspeak-gridtext

Commentary:
Emacspeak's table browsing mode allows one to
efficiently access  content that is tabular in nature.
That module also provides functions for infering table
structure where possible.
Often, such structure is hard to infer automatically
--but might be known to the user 
e.g. treat columns 1 through 30 as one column of a table
and so on.
This module allows the user to specify a conceptual grid
that is "overlaid" on the region of text to turn it into
a table for tabular browsing. For now, elements of the
grid are "one line" high --but that may change in the
future if necessary. This module is useful for browsing
structured text files and the output from programs that
tabulate their output.
It's also useful for handling multicolumn text.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-gridtext.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gridtext-apply (START END GRID)
@kbd{ control e # a }

Apply grid to region.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gridtext-load (FILE)
@kbd{ control e # l }

Load saved grid settings.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-gridtext-save (FILE)
@kbd{ control e # s }

Save out grid settings.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-hide
@section emacspeak-hide

Commentary:

Flexible hide and show for emacspeak.
This module allows one to easily hide or expose
blocks of lines starting with a common prefix.
It is motivated by the need to flexibly hide quoted text in email
but is designed to be more general.
the prefix parsing is inspired by filladapt.el

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-hide.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-hide-or-expose-all-blocks ()
Hide or expose all blocks in buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e j }

Hide or expose a block of text.
This command either hides or exposes a block of text
starting on the current line.  A block of text is defined as
a portion of the buffer in which all lines start with a
common PREFIX.  Optional interactive prefix arg causes all
blocks in current buffer to be hidden or exposed.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-hide-speak-block-sans-prefix ()
@kbd{ control e control j }

Speaks current block after stripping its prefix.
If the current block is not hidden, it first hides it.
This is useful because as you locate blocks, you can invoke this
command to listen to the block,
and when you have heard enough navigate easily  to move past the block.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ibuffer
@section emacspeak-ibuffer

Commentary:
speech-enable ibuffer.el
this is an alternative to buffer-menu

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ibuffer.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ibuffer-speak-buffer-line ()
Speak information about this buffer
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-imcom
@section emacspeak-imcom

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-imcom.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-imcom ()
Start IMCom.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-imcom-mode ()
Major mode for Jabber interaction using IMCom.

key             binding
---             -------

C-c		Prefix Command

C-c v		emacspeak-imcom-view-chat-session

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `comint-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-imcom-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-imcom-view-chat-session (SESSION)
Display specified chat session.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-imenu
@section emacspeak-imenu

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-imenu.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-imenu-goto-next-index-position ()
Goto the next index position in current buffer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-imenu-goto-previous-index-position ()
Goto the previous index position in current buffer
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-imenu-speak-this-section ()
Speak upto start of next index entry
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-info
@section emacspeak-info

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-info.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-info-wizard ()
@kbd{ control h TAB   <f1> TAB   <help> TAB }

Read a node spec from the minibuffer and launch
Info-goto-node.
See documentation for command `Info-goto-node' for details on
node-spec.

(fn NODE-SPEC)
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-keymap
@section emacspeak-keymap

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-keymap.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-keymap-choose-new-emacspeak-prefix (PREFIX-KEY)
Interactively select a new prefix key to use for all emacspeak
commands.  The default is to use `C-e'  This command
lets you switch the prefix to something else.  This is a useful thing
to do if you run emacspeak on a remote machine from inside a terminal
that is running inside a local emacspeak session.  You can have the
remote emacspeak use a different control key to give your fingers some
relief.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-kotl
@section emacspeak-kotl

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-kotl.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-kotl-setup-keys ()
Setup additional keybindings
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-kotl-speak-cell (ARG)
Speak cell contents from point to end of cell.
  With prefix arg, speaks entire cell contents
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-loaddefs
@section emacspeak-loaddefs

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-loaddefs.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-comint-output-monitor (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e o }

Toggle state of Emacspeak comint monitor.
When turned on, comint output is automatically spoken.  Turn this on if
you want your shell to speak its results.  Interactive
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-m-player
@section emacspeak-m-player

Commentary:
Defines a simple derived mode for interacting with mplayer.
mplayer  is a versatile media player capable of playing many
streaming formats  and is especially useful for playing windows
media (WMA) and streaming windows media (ASF) files.
mplayer is available  on the WWW:
RPM package
http://mirrors.sctpc.com/dominik/linux/pkgs/mplayer/i586/mplayer-0.90pre5-2.i586.rpm
You may need the  win32 codecs which can be downloaded from 
http://ftp.lug.udel.edu/MPlayer/releases/w32codec-0.60.tar.bz2
Mplayer FAQ at
http://www.mplayerhq.hu/DOCS/faq.html
Mplayer docs at 
http://www.mplayerhq.hu/DOCS/

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-m-player.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player (RESOURCE)
@kbd{ control e : }

Play specified resource using m-player.
Resource is an  MP3 file or m3u playlist.
The player is placed in a buffer in emacspeak-m-player-mode.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-alt-src-step (STEP)
Move within an ASF playlist.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-mode ()
Major mode for m-player interaction. 

key             binding
---             -------

q		emacspeak-m-player-quit
SPC		emacspeak-m-player-pause
a		emacspeak-m-player-alt-src-step
P		emacspeak-m-player-play-tree-up
p		emacspeak-m-player-play-tree-step
S		emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute
s		emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative
<right>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase
<left>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `comint-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-m-player-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-pause ()
Pause or unpause media player.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-play-tree-step (STEP)
Move within the play tree.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-play-tree-up (STEP)
Move within the play tree.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-quit ()
Quit media player.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute (POSITION)
Seek  to absolute specified position.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative (OFFSET)
Seek  by offset into stream from current position.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-madplay
@section emacspeak-madplay

Commentary:
Defines a simple derived mode for interacting with
madplay.
madplay navigation commands  work via single keystrokes.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-madplay.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-madplay (RESOURCE)
Play specified resource using madplay.
Resource is an  MP3 file or directory containing mp3 files.
The player is placed in a buffer in emacspeak-madplay-mode.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command ()
Call appropriate madplay command.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-madplay-madplay-command (CHAR)
Execute Madplay command.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-madplay-mode ()
Major mode for madplay interaction. 

key             binding
---             -------

<right>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase
<left>		emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease
t		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
q		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
-		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
+		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
s		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
p		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
b		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
f		emacspeak-madplay-madplay-call-command
o		emacspeak-madplay

This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-madplay-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-man
@section emacspeak-man

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-man.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-man-browse-man-page ()
Browse the man page --read it a paragraph at a time
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-man-speak-this-section ()
Speak current section
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-mpg123
@section emacspeak-mpg123

Commentary:
This module speech-enables  MPG123
MPG123 is an MP3 player.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-mpg123.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mp3-playlist-play (PLAYLIST &optional DONT-SHUFFLE)
Play a playlist. 
Optional interactive prefix arg says not to shuffle  the list. 
Use command M-x emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip 
to skip to the next track. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip ()
Skip currently playing track. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mp3-playlist-stop ()
Kill currently playing playlist. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mpg123-backward-minute (ARG)
Move back by specified number of minutes.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mpg123-forward-minute (ARG)
Forward by ARG minutes.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-current-time ()
Speak time in current track.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-filename ()
Speak filename of the current song.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-length ()
Speak duration of the current song.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-title ()
Speak title of the current song.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ocr
@section emacspeak-ocr

Commentary:
This module defines Emacspeak front-end to OCR.
This module assumes that sane is installed and working
for image acquisition,
and that there is an OCR engine that can take acquired
images and produce text.
Prerequisites:
Sane installed and working.
scanimage to generate tiff files from scanner.
tiffcp to compress the tiff file.
working ocr executable 
by default this module assumes that the OCR executable
is named "ocr"

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-ocr.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr ()
@kbd{ control e control o }

An OCR front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.  

Page image is acquired using tools from the SANE package.
The acquired image is run through the OCR engine if one is
available, and the results placed in a buffer that is
suitable for browsing the results.

For detailed help, invoke command emacspeak-ocr bound to
C-e C-o to launch emacspeak-ocr-mode, and press
`?' to display mode-specific help for emacspeak-ocr-mode.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-backward-page (&optional COUNT-IGNORED)
Like backward page, but tracks page number of current document.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-customize ()
Customize OCR settings.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-forward-page (&optional COUNT-IGNORED)
Like forward page, but tracks page number of current document.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-mode ()
 An OCR front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.

Pre-requisites:

1) A working scanner back-end like SANE on Linux.

2) An OCR engine.

1: Make sure your scanner back-end works, and that you have
the utilities to scan a document and acquire an image as a
tiff file.  Then set variable
emacspeak-ocr-scan-image-program to point at this utility.
By default, this is set to `scanimage' which is the image
scanning utility provided by SANE.

By default, this front-end attempts to compress the acquired
tiff image; make sure you have a utility like tiffcp.
Variable emacspeak-ocr-compress-image is set to `tiffcp' by
default; if you use something else, you should customize
this variable.

2: Next, make sure you have an OCR engine installed and
working.  By default this front-end assumes that OCR is
available as /usr/bin/ocr.

Once you have ensured that acquiring an image and applying
OCR to it work independently of Emacs, you can use this
Emacspeak front-end to enable easy OCR access from within
Emacspeak.

The Emacspeak OCR front-end is launched by command
emacspeak-ocr bound to C-e C-o.  

This command switches to a special buffer that has OCR
commands bounds to single keystrokes-- see the ke-binding
list at the end of this description.  Use Emacs online help
facility to look up help on these commands.

emacspeak-ocr-mode provides the necessary functionality to
scan, OCR, read and save documents.  By default, scanned
images and the resulting text are saved under directory
~/ocr; see variable emacspeak-ocr-working-directory.
Invoking command emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory bound
to M-x emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory will open this directory.

By default, the document being scanned is named `untitled'.
You can name the document by using command
emacspeak-ocr-name-document bound to
M-x emacspeak-ocr-name-document.  The document name is used
in constructing the name of the image and text files.

Key Bindings: 

See key             binding
---             -------

9		emacspeak-ocr-page
8		emacspeak-ocr-page
7		emacspeak-ocr-page
6		emacspeak-ocr-page
5		emacspeak-ocr-page
4		emacspeak-ocr-page
3		emacspeak-ocr-page
2		emacspeak-ocr-page
1		emacspeak-ocr-page
C		emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options
I		emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options
SPC		emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page
s		emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page
p		emacspeak-ocr-page
]		emacspeak-ocr-forward-page
[		emacspeak-ocr-backward-page
d		emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory
n		emacspeak-ocr-name-document
o		emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image
j		emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo
i		emacspeak-ocr-scan-image
RET		emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize
w		emacspeak-ocr-write-document
q		bury-buffer
c		emacspeak-ocr-customize
?		describe-mode

.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-ocr-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-name-document (NAME)
Name document being scanned in the current OCR buffer.
Pick a short but meaningful name.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory ()
Launch dired on OCR working directory.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-page ()
Move to specified page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page ()
Speaks current page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image ()
Run OCR engine on current image.
Prompts for image file if file corresponding to the expected
`current page' is not found.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page ()
Writes out recognized text from current page
to an appropriately named file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize ()
Scan in a page and run OCR engine on it.
Use this command once you've verified that the separate
steps of acquiring an image and running the OCR engine work
correctly by themselves.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-scan-image ()
Acquire page image.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo (&optional METADATA)
Scan in a photograph.
The scanned image is converted to JPEG.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options (SETTING)
Interactively update  image compression options.
Prompts with current setting in the minibuffer.
Setting persists for current Emacs session.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options (SETTING)
Interactively update scan image options.
Prompts with current setting in the minibuffer.
Setting persists for current Emacs session.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-ocr-write-document ()
Writes out recognized text from all pages in current document.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-outline
@section emacspeak-outline

Commentary:
Provide additional advice to outline-mode

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-outline.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-backward-heading ()
Analogous to outline-backward-same-level
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-forward-heading ()
Analogous to outline-forward-same-level,
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-next-heading ()
Analogous to outline-next-visible-heading,
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-previous-heading ()
Analogous to outline-previous-visible-heading,
except that the outline section is optionally spoken
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-this-heading ()
Speak current outline section starting from point
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-pronounce
@section emacspeak-pronounce

Commentary:
This module implements user customizable pronunciation dictionaries
for emacspeak. Custom pronunciations can be defined per file, per
directory and/or per major mode. Emacspeak maintains a persistent
user dictionary upon request and loads these in new emacspeak
sessions. This module implements the user interface to the custom
dictionary as well as providing the internal API used by the rest
of emacspeak in using the dictionary.
Algorithm:

The persistent dictionary is a hash table where the hash keys are
filenames, directory names, or major-mode names. The hash values
are association lists defining the dictionary. Users of this module
can retrieve a dictionary made up of all applicable association
lists for a given file.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-pronounce.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-clear-dictionaries ()
Clear all current pronunciation dictionaries.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-define-local-pronunciation (WORD PRONUNCIATION)
Define buffer local pronunciation.
Argument WORD specifies the word which should be pronounced as specified by PRONUNCIATION.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-define-pronunciation ()
Interactively define entries in the pronunciation dictionaries.
Default term to define is delimited by region.
First loads any persistent dictionaries if not already loaded.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-define-template-pronunciation ()
Interactively define template entries in the pronunciation dictionaries.
Default term to define is delimited by region.
First loads any persistent dictionaries if not already loaded.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-dispatch ()
@kbd{ control e meta d }

Provides the user interface front-end to Emacspeak's pronunciation dictionaries.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-edit-pronunciations (KEY)
Prompt for and launch a pronunciation editor on the
specified pronunciation dictionary key.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-load-dictionaries (&optional FILENAME)
Load pronunciation dictionaries.
Optional argument FILENAME specifies the dictionary file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-refresh-pronunciations ()
Refresh pronunciation table for current buffer.
Activates pronunciation dictionaries if not already active.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-save-dictionaries ()
Writes out the persistent emacspeak pronunciation dictionaries.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-toggle-use-of-dictionaries (&optional STATE)
Toggle use of pronunciation dictionaries in current buffer.
Pronunciations can be defined on a per file, per directory and/or per
mode basis.
Pronunciations are activated on a per buffer basis.
Turning on the use of pronunciation dictionaries results in emacspeak
composing a pronunciation table based on the currently defined
pronunciation dictionaries.
After this, the pronunciations will be applied whenever text in the
buffer is spoken.
Optional argument state can be used from Lisp programs to
explicitly turn pronunciations on or off.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-pronounce-yank-word ()
Yank word at point into minibuffer.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-psgml
@section emacspeak-psgml

Commentary:
Speech-enable psgml --a powerful SGML support package.
psgml can be found at 

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-psgml.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-psgml-speak-current-element ()
Speak contents of current element. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-psgml-summarize-element ()
Context-sensitive element summarizer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-psgml-toggle-interactive-font-lock ()
Toggles variable sgml-set-face.
When turned on, the  buffer is font locked interactively.
Leave this off in general while editting.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-browse-mode ()
Mode for browsing XML documents.

Uses keymap "emacspeak-xml-browse-mode", which is not currently defined.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `xml-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-xml-browse-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-python
@section emacspeak-python

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-python.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-py-next-block ()
Move forward to the beginning of the next block.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-py-previous-block ()
Move backward to the beginning of the current block.
If already at the beginning then move to previous block.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-realaudio
@section emacspeak-realaudio

Commentary:
Assuming you have a correctly configured RealAudio
player, this package provides single click access to
starting and stopping a RealAudio stream from anywhere
on the Emacspeak desktop.  Before using this package,
make sure that your realaudio player works outside
Emacs. Then set variable Emacspeak-realaudio-player to
point to the program you use to play RealAudio streams.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-realaudio.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-browse (RAMFILE &optional START-TIME)
Browse RAM file before playing the selected component.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-get-current-time-in-seconds ()
Return current time in seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-mode ()
Major mode for streaming audio. 

key             binding
---             -------

This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-realaudio-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-play (RESOURCE &optional PROMPT-TIME)
Play a realaudio stream.  Uses files from your Realaudio
shortcuts directory for completion.  See documentation for
user configurable variable emacspeak-realaudio-shortcuts-directory. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-select-realaudio-buffer ()
Switch to realaudio buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-set-end-mark (&optional MARK-TIME)
Set end mark. Default is to set marker to current play time.
Mark is specified in seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-set-start-mark (&optional MARK-TIME)
Set start mark. Default is to set marker to current play time.
Mark is specified in seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-stop ()
Stop playing realaudio
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-call-command ()
Call appropriate TRPlayer command.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-trplayer-command (CHAR)
Execute TRPlayer command.

This function is advised.

Before-advice `emacspeak-auto':
Automatically defined advice to speak interactive prompts. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio-write-mp3-clip (START END FILE)
Writes specified clip from current mp3 stream.
Prompts for start and end times as well as file  to save the clippi
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-redefine
@section emacspeak-redefine

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-redefine.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-backward-char (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control b   <left> }

Backward-char redefined to speak char moved to. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-forward-char (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control f   <right> }

Forward-char redefined to speak char moved to. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-self-insert-command (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set JISX0213-2   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Tibetan 2 column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set Indian 2 Column   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-7 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-187   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-6 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-186   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-5 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-185   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-4 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-184   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set CNS11643-3 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-183   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Ethiopic characters   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +0100.. cap U +24FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +E000+FFFF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Unicode subset ( cap U +2500.. cap U +33FF)   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Tibetan 1 column   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph   Character set Indian glyph                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-2) C940-FEFE   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set Big5 (Level-1) A141-C67F   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set JISX0213-1   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-2 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-172   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set CNS11643-1 (Chinese traditional): ISO-IR-171   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set JISX0212 (Japanese): ISO-IR-159   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set KSC5601 (Korean): ISO-IR-149   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set JISX0208.1983/1990 (Japanese): ISO-IR-87   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set GB2312: ISO-IR-58   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42   Character set JISX0208.1978 (Japanese): ISO-IR-42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~   @}   |   @{   z   y   x   w   v   u   t   s   r   q   p   o   n   m   l   k   j   i   h   g   f   e   d   c   b   a   `   _   ^   ]   \   [    cap Z     cap Y     cap X     cap W     cap V     cap U     cap T     cap S     cap R     cap Q     cap P     cap O     cap N     cap M     cap L     cap K     cap J     cap I     cap H     cap G     cap F     cap E     cap D     cap C     cap B     cap A    @@   ?   >   =   <   ;   :   9   8   7   6   5   4   3   2   1   0   /   .   -   ,   +   *   )   (   '   &   %   $   #   !   SPACE }

Insert a character.
Speaks the character if emacspeak-character-echo is true.
See  command emacspeak-toggle-word-echo bound to
C-e d w.
Toggle variable dtk-stop-immediately-while-typing if you want to have
speech flush as you type.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-remote
@section emacspeak-remote

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-remote.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-remote-connect-to-server (HOST PORT)
@kbd{ control e meta r }

Connect to and start using remote speech server running on host host
and listening on port port.  Host is the hostname of the remote
server, typically the desktop machine.  Port is the tcp port that that
host is listening on for speech requests.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-to-server ()
Connect to remote server.
Does not prompt for host or port, but quietly uses the
guesses that appear as defaults when prompting.
Use this once you are sure the guesses are usually correct.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-remote-ssh-to-server (LOGIN)
Open ssh session to where we came from.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-rss
@section emacspeak-rss

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-rss.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-rss-browse (FEED)
@kbd{ control e control u }

Browse specified RSS feed.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-rss-display (RSS-URL &optional SPEAK)
Retrieve and display RSS URL.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-solitaire
@section emacspeak-solitaire

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-solitaire.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-solitaire-show-column ()
Display current row auditorallly
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-solitaire-show-row ()
Display current row auditorallly
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-solitaire-speak-coordinates ()
Speak coordinates of current position
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-sounds
@section emacspeak-sounds

Commentary:
This module provides the interface for generating auditory icons in emacspeak.
Design goal:
1) Auditory icons should be used to provide additional feedback,
not as a gimmick.
2) The interface should be usable at all times without the icons:
e.g. when on a machine without a sound card.
3) General principle for when to use an icon:
Convey information about events taking place in parallel.
For instance, if making a selection automatically moves the current focus
to the next choice,
We speak the next choice, while indicating the fact that something was selected with a sound cue.
 This interface will assume the availability of a shell command "play"
that can take one or more sound files and play them.
This module will also provide a mapping between names in the elisp world and actual sound files.
Modules that wish to use auditory icons should use these names, instead of actual file names.
As of Emacspeak 13.0, this module defines a themes
architecture for  auditory icons.
Sound files corresponding to a given theme are found in
appropriate subdirectories of emacspeak-sounds-directory

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-sounds.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-play-all-icons ()
Plays all defined icons and speaks their names.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-set-auditory-icon-player (PLAYER)
@kbd{ control e meta a }

Select  player used for producing auditory icons.
Recommended choices:

emacspeak-serve-auditory-icon for  the wave device.
emacspeak-queue-auditory-icon when using software TTS.
emacspeak-play-midi-icon for midi device. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-sounds-reset-local-player ()
Ask Emacspeak to use a local audio player.
This lets me have Emacspeak switch to using audioplay on
solaris after I've used it for a while from a remote session
where it would use the more primitive speech-server based
audio player.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-sounds-reset-sound ()
Reload sound drivers.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-sounds-select-theme (THEME)
@kbd{ control e ) }

Select theme for auditory icons.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-auditory-icons (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e control a }

Toggle use of auditory icons.
Optional interactive PREFIX arg toggles global value.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-speak
@section emacspeak-speak

Commentary:
This module defines the core speech services used by emacspeak.
It depends on the speech server interface modules
It protects other parts of emacspeak
from becoming dependent on the speech server modules

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-speak.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-audio-annotate-paragraphs ()
Set property auditory-icon at front of all paragraphs.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-blink-matching-open ()
Display matching delimiter in the minibuffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-completions-move-to-completion-group ()
Move to group of choices beginning with character last
typed. If no such group exists, then we dont move. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-dial-dtk (NUMBER)
@kbd{ control e d t }

Prompt for and dial a phone NUMBER with the Dectalk.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-execute-repeatedly (COMMAND)
Execute COMMAND repeatedly.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mark-backward-mark ()
@kbd{ <control up> }

Cycle backward through the mark ring.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-mark-forward-mark ()
@kbd{ <control down> }

Cycle forward through the mark ring.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-owindow-next-line (COUNT)
@kbd{ ESCAPE <down> }

Move to the next line in the other window and speak it.
Numeric prefix arg COUNT can specify number of lines to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-owindow-previous-line (COUNT)
@kbd{ ESCAPE <up> }

Move to the next line in the other window and speak it.
Numeric prefix arg COUNT specifies number of lines to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-owindow-scroll-down ()
@kbd{ ESCAPE <prior> }

Scroll down  the window that command `other-window' would move to.
Speak the window contents after scrolling.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-owindow-scroll-up ()
@kbd{ ESCAPE <next> }

Scroll up the window that command `other-window' would move to.
Speak the window contents after scrolling.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-owindow-speak-line ()
@kbd{ ESCAPE <select> }

Speak the current line in the other window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-read-next-line (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e <down> }

Read next line, specified by an offset, without moving.
Default is to read the next line. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-read-next-word (&optional ARG)
Read next word, specified as a numeric  arg, without moving.
Default is to read the next word. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-read-previous-line (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e <up> }

Read previous line, specified by an offset, without moving.
Default is to read the previous line. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-read-previous-word (&optional ARG)
Read previous word, specified as a prefix arg, without moving.
Default is to read the previous word. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-char (CHAR)
Search forward from point until we hit char.
Speak text between point and the char we hit.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-this-char ()
Speak extent delimited by point and last character typed.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-browse-buffer (&optional BROWSE)
@kbd{ control e , }

Browse current buffer.
Default is to speak chunk having current personality.
Interactive prefix arg `browse'  repeatedly browses  through
  chunks having same personality as the current text chunk.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-buffer (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e b }

Speak current buffer  contents.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.
 If voice lock mode is on, the paragraphs in the buffer are
voice annotated first,  see command `emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-buffer-filename (&optional FILENAME)
@kbd{ control e f }

Speak name of file being visited in current buffer.
Speak default directory if invoked in a dired buffer,
or when the buffer is not visiting any file. 
Interactive prefix arg `filename' speaks only the final path
component.
The result is put in the kill ring for convenience.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-buffer-interactively ()
@kbd{ control e  cap B  }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire buffer.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-char (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e c }

Speak character under point.
Pronounces character phonetically unless  called with a PREFIX arg.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-comint-send-input ()
Causes output to be spoken i.e., as if comint autospeak were turned
on.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-completions ()
Speak completions  buffer if one present.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-continuously ()
@kbd{ control e RETURN }

Speak a buffer continuously.
First prompts using the minibuffer for the kind of action to
perform after speaking each chunk.  E.G.  speak a line at a time
etc.  Speaking commences at current buffer position.  Pressing
C-g breaks out, leaving point on last chunk that
was spoken.  Any other key continues to speak the buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-current-column ()
@kbd{ control e = }

Speak the current column.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-current-field ()
@kbd{ control e . }

Speak current field.
A field is
defined  by Emacs 21.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-current-kill (COUNT)
@kbd{ control e k }

Speak the current kill entry.
This is the text that will be yanked in by the next C-y.
Prefix numeric arg, COUNT, specifies that the text that will be yanked as a
result of a
C-y  followed by count-1 M-y
be spoken.
 The kill number that is spoken says what numeric prefix arg to give
to command yank.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-current-mark (COUNT)
@kbd{ control e control @@ }

Speak the line containing the mark.
With no argument, speaks the
line containing the mark--this is where `exchange-point-and-mark'
C-x C-x would jump.  Numeric prefix arg 'COUNT' speaks
line containing mark 'n' where 'n' is one less than the number of
times one has to jump using `set-mark-command' to get to this marked
position.  The location of the mark is indicated by an aural highlight
achieved by a change in voice personality.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-current-percentage ()
@kbd{ control e % }

Announce the percentage into the current buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-current-window ()
Speak contents of current window.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-display-char (&optional PREFIX)
Display char under point using current speech display table.
Behavior is the same as command `emacspeak-speak-char'
bound to C-e c
for characters in the range 0--127.
Optional argument PREFIX  specifies that the character should be spoken phonetically.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-front-of-buffer ()
Speak   the buffer from start to   point
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-help (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e h }

Speak help buffer if one present.
With prefix arg, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-help-interactively ()
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire help.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire help.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-line (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e l }

Speaks current line.  With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the line
from point.  Negative prefix optional arg speaks from start of line to
point.  Voicifies if option `voice-lock-mode' is on.  Indicates
indentation with a tone if audio indentation is in use.  Indicates
position of point with an aural highlight if option
`emacspeak-show-point' is turned on --see command
`emacspeak-show-point' bound to M-x emacspeak-show-point.  Lines that
start hidden blocks of text, e.g.  outline header lines, or header
lines of blocks created by command `emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block'
are indicated with auditory icon ellipses.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-line-interactively ()
@kbd{ control e  cap L  }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire line.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire line.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-line-number ()
@kbd{ control e control l }

Print the current buffer line number and narrowed line number of point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-line-number-obsolete ()
Speak the line number of the current line.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter (FILTER)
@kbd{ control e | }

Set up filter for selectively speaking or ignoring portions of lines.
The filter is specified as a list of pairs.
For example, to filter  columns 1 -- 10 and 20 -- 25,
specify filter as 
((0 9) (20 25)). Filter settings are persisted across sessions.  A
persisted filter is used as the default when prompting for a filter.
This allows one to accumulate a set of filters for specific files like
/var/adm/messages and /var/adm/maillog over time.
Option emacspeak-speak-line-invert-filter determines 
the sense of the filter. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-load-directory-settings (&optional DIRECTORY)
Load a directory specific Emacspeak settings file.
This is typically used to load up settings that are specific to
an electronic book consisting of many files in the same
directory.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-message-again (&optional FROM-MESSAGE-CACHE)
@kbd{ control e a }

Speak the last message from Emacs once again.
Optional interactive prefix arg 
`from-message-cache' speaks message cached from the most
recent call to function `message'.
The message is also placed in the kill ring for convenient yanking
if `emacspeak-speak-message-again-should-copy-to-kill-ring' is set.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-message-at-time (TIME MESSAGE)
@kbd{ control e @@ }

Set up ring-at-time to speak message at specified time.
Provides simple stop watch functionality in addition to other things.
See documentation for command run-at-time for details on time-spec.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-minibuffer (&optional ARG)
Speak the minibuffer contents
 With prefix arg, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-minor-mode-line ()
@kbd{ control e  cap M  }

Speak the minor mode-information.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-mode-line (&optional BUFFER-INFO)
@kbd{ control e m }

Speak the mode-line.
Interactive prefix arg speaks buffer info.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-next-field ()
@kbd{ control e > }

Skip across and speak the next contiguous sequence of non-blank characters.
Useful in moving across fields.
Will be improved if it proves useful.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-next-personality-chunk ()
Moves to the front of next chunk having current personality.
Speak that chunk after moving.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-next-window ()
@kbd{ control e control n }

Speak the next window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-other-buffer (BUFFER)
@kbd{ control e meta b }

Speak specified buffer.
Useful to listen to a buffer while in a different context.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-other-window (&optional ARG)
Speak contents of `other' window.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
Semantics  of `other' is the same as for the builtin Emacs command
`other-window'.
Optional argument ARG  specifies `other' window to speak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-page (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e [ }

Speak a page.
With prefix ARG, speaks rest of current page.
Negative prefix arg will read from start of current page to point.
If option  `voice-lock-mode' is on, then it will use any defined personality.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-page-interactively ()
@kbd{ control e ] }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire page.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-paragraph (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e @{ }

Speak paragraph.
With prefix arg, speaks rest of current paragraph.
Negative prefix arg will read from start of current paragraph to point.
If voice-lock-mode is on, then it will use any defined personality. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-paragraph-interactively ()
@kbd{ control e  cap P  }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire paragraph.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire paragraph.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-predefined-window (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e 9   control e 8   control e 7   control e 6   control e 5   control e 4   control e 3   control e 2   control e 1   control e 0 }

Speak one of the first 10 windows on the screen.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
In general, you'll never have Emacs split the screen into more than
two or three.
Argument ARG determines the 'other' window to speak.
Semantics  of `other' is the same as for the builtin Emacs command
`other-window'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-previous-field ()
@kbd{ control e < }

Skip backwards across and speak  contiguous sequence of non-blank characters.
Useful in moving across fields.
Will be improved if it proves useful.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-previous-personality-chunk ()
Moves to the front of previous chunk having current personality.
Speak that chunk after moving.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-previous-window ()
@kbd{ control e control p }

Speak the previous window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-rectangle (START END)
@kbd{ control e  cap R  }

Speak a rectangle of text.
Rectangle is delimited by point and mark.
When call from a program,
arguments specify the START and END of the rectangle.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-region (START END)
@kbd{ control e r }

Speak region.
Argument START  and END specify region to speak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer ()
@kbd{ control e n }

Speak remainder of the buffer starting at point
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-sentence (&optional ARG)
Speak current sentence.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the sentence  from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of sentence to point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-set-display-table (&optional PREFIX)
Sets up buffer specific speech display table that controls how
special characters are spoken. Interactive prefix argument causes
setting to be global.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-sexp (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e ' }

Speak current sexp.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the sexp  from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of sexp to point.
If option  `voice-lock-mode' is on, then uses the personality.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-sexp-interactively ()
@kbd{ control e " }

Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire sexp.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire sexp.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-skim-buffer ()
Skim the current buffer  a paragraph at a time.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-skim-next-paragraph ()
Skim next paragraph.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-skim-paragraph ()
Skim paragraph.
Skimming a paragraph results in the speech speeding up after
the first clause.
Speech is scaled by the value of dtk-speak-skim-scale
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-spaces-at-point ()
@kbd{ control e CONTROL meta @@ }

Speak the white space at point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-spell-current-word ()
Spell word at  point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-this-personality-chunk ()
Speak chunk of text around point that has current
personality.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-time (&optional WORLD)
@kbd{ control e t }

Speak the time.
Optional interactive prefix arg `C-u'invokes world clock.
Timezone is specified using minibuffer completion.
Second interactive prefix sets clock to new timezone.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-version ()
@kbd{ control e  cap V  }

Announce version information for running emacspeak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs ()
Locate paragraphs and voice annotate the first word.
Here, paragraph is taken to mean a chunk of text preceded by a blank line.
Useful to do this before you listen to an entire buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-window-information ()
@kbd{ control e control w }

Speaks information about current window.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-word (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e w }

Speak current word.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the word from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of word to point.
If executed  on the same buffer position a second time, the word is
spelt instead of being spoken.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-word-interactively ()
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire word.
's' to speak the start.
'r' to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire word.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-world-clock (ZONE &optional SET)
Display current date and time  for specified zone.
Optional second arg `set' sets the TZ environment variable as well.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-switch-to-completions-window ()
Jump to the *Completions* buffer if it is active.
We make the current minibuffer contents (which is obviously the
prefix for each entry in the completions buffer) inaudible
to reduce chatter.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-action-mode (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  action mode.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d i }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  audio indentation.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
Specifying the method of indentation as `tones'
results in the Dectalk producing a tone whose length is a function of the
line's indentation.  Specifying `speak'
results in the number of initial spaces being spoken.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-character-echo (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d k }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  character echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e control q }

Toggle state of Emacspeak comint autospeak.
When turned on, comint output is automatically spoken.  Turn this on if
you want your shell to speak its results.  Interactive
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-line-echo (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d l }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  line echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e meta m }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  mail alert.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
Turning on this option results in Emacspeak producing an auditory icon
indicating the arrival  of new mail when displaying the mode line.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-show-point (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e control d }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak-show-point.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-speak-line-invert-filter (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e \ }

Toggle state of   how column filter is interpreted.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e q }

Toggle the state of whether emacspeak echoes messages.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-which-function (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e meta w }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  which function mode.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-toggle-word-echo (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e d w }

Toggle state of  Emacspeak  word echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-use-customized-blink-paren ()
A customized blink-paren to speak  matching opening paren.
We need to call this in case Emacs
is anal and loads its own builtin blink-paren function
which does not talk.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-register ()
@kbd{ control e v }

Display the contents of a register, and then speak it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-voicify-rectangle (START END &optional PERSONALITY)
Voicify the current rectangle.
When calling from a program,arguments are
START END personality
Prompts for PERSONALITY  with completion when called interactively.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-voicify-region (START END &optional PERSONALITY)
Voicify the current region.
When calling from a program,arguments are
START END personality.
Prompts for PERSONALITY  with completion when called interactively.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-zap-tts ()
@kbd{ control e d z }

Send this command to the TTS directly.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-speedbar
@section emacspeak-speedbar

Commentary:
This module advises speedbar.el for use with Emacs.  The
latest speedbar can be obtained from
ftp://ftp.ultranet.com/pub/zappo/ This module ensures
that speedbar works smoothly outside a windowing system
in addition to speech enabling all interactive
commands. Emacspeak also adds an Emacspeak environment
specific entry point to speedbar
--emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar-- and binds this

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-speedbar.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speedbar-click ()
Does the equivalent of the mouse click from the keyboard
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar ()
Switch to the speedbar
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-table-ui
@section emacspeak-table-ui

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-table-ui.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-register (REGISTER)
Speak current table element
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-copy-to-clipboard ()
Copy table in current buffer to the table clipboard.
Current buffer must be in emacspeak-table mode.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region (START END)
@kbd{ control e TAB }

Recognize tabular data in current region and display it in table
browsing mode in a a separate buffer.
emacspeak table mode is designed to let you browse tabular data using
all the power of the two-dimensional spatial layout while giving you
sufficient contextual information.  The tables subdirectory of the
emacspeak distribution contains some sample tables --these are the
CalTrain schedules.  Execute command `describe-mode' bound to
C-h m in a buffer that is in emacspeak table mode to read
the documentation on the table browser.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-find-csv-file (FILENAME)
Process a csv (comma separated values) file. 
The processed  data and presented using emacspeak table navigation. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-find-file (FILENAME)
@kbd{ control e control t }

Open a file containing table data and display it in table mode.
emacspeak table mode is designed to let you browse tabular data using
all the power of the two-dimensional spatial layout while giving you
sufficient contextual information.  The etc/tables subdirectory of the
emacspeak distribution contains some sample tables --these are the
CalTrain schedules.  Execute command `describe-mode' bound to
C-h m in a buffer that is in emacspeak table mode to read
the documentation on the table browser.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-get-entry-with-headers (ROW COLUMN &optional ROW-HEAD-P COL-HEAD-P)
Return   both row and column header and table element
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-goto (ROW COLUMN)
Prompt for a table cell coordinates and jump to it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-goto-bottom ()
Goes to the bottom of the current column.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-goto-left ()
Goes to the left of the current row.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-goto-right ()
Goes to the right of the current row.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-goto-top ()
Goes to the top of the current column.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-next-column (&optional COUNT)
Move to the next column if possible
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-next-row (&optional COUNT)
Move to the next row if possible
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-paste-from-clipboard ()
Paste the emacspeak table clipboard into the current buffer.
Use the major  mode of this buffer to  decide what kind of table
markup to use.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-previous-column (&optional COUNT)
Move to the previous column  if possible
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-previous-row (&optional COUNT)
Move to the previous row if possible
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-search (&optional WHAT)
Search the table for matching elements.  Interactively prompts for
row or column to search and pattern to look for.    If there is a match, makes
the matching cell current. When called from a program, `what' can
  be either `row' or `column'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-search-column ()
Search in current table column.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-search-headers ()
Search the table row or column headers.  Interactively prompts for
row or column to search and pattern to look for.  If there is a
match, makes the matching row or column current.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-search-row ()
Search in current table row.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-select-automatic-speaking-method ()
Interactively select the kind of automatic speech to produce when
browsing table elements
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-sort-on-current-column ()
Sort table on current column. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-both-headers-and-element ()
Speak  both row and column header and table element
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-column-filtered (&optional PREFIX)
Speaks a table column after applying a specified column filter.
Optional prefix arg prompts for a new filter.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-column-header-and-element ()
Speak  column header and table element
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-coordinates ()
Speak current table coordinates.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-current-element ()
Speak current table element
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-dimensions ()
Speak current table dimensions.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-row-filtered (&optional PREFIX)
Speaks a table row after applying a specified row filter.
Optional prefix arg prompts for a new filter.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-speak-row-header-and-element ()
Speak  row header and table element
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-ui-filter-load (FILE)
Load saved filter settings.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-ui-filter-save (FILE)
Save out filter settings.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-table-view-csv-buffer (&optional BUFFER-NAME)
Process a csv (comma separated values) data. 
The processed  data and presented using emacspeak table navigation. 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tabulate
@section emacspeak-tabulate

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tabulate.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tabulate-region (START END &optional MARK-FIELDS)
@kbd{ control e i }

Voicifies the white-space of a table if one found.  Optional interactive prefix
arg mark-fields specifies if the header row information is used to mark fields
in the white-space.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tapestry
@section emacspeak-tapestry

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tapestry.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tapestry-describe-tapestry (&optional DETAILS)
@kbd{ control e meta t }

Describe the current layout of visible buffers in current frame.
Use interactive prefix arg to get coordinate positions of the
displayed buffers.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tapestry-select-window-by-name (BUFFER-NAME)
@kbd{ control e  cap W  }

Select window by the name of the buffer it displays.
This is useful when using modes like ECB or the new GDB UI where
  you want to preserve the window layout 
but quickly switch to a window by name.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tar
@section emacspeak-tar

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tar.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tar-speak-file-date ()
Speak date of file current entry 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tar-speak-file-permissions ()
Speak permissions of file current entry 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tar-speak-file-size ()
Speak size of file current entry 
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tetris
@section emacspeak-tetris

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tetris.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-goto-bottom-row ()
Move to and speak bottom row
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-goto-top-row ()
Move to and speak the top row
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-column (&optional X)
Speak  column --default is to speak current column
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-coordinates ()
Speak current position
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape ()
Speak current shape
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape-and-coordinates ()
Speak shape orientation and coordinates
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-next-shape ()
Speak next shape
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-row ()
Speak current tetris row
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-row-number ()
Speak where on the tetris board we are
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-score ()
Speak the score
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-x-coordinate ()
Speak current position
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tnt
@section emacspeak-tnt

Commentary:
Speech-enables TNT -- the Emacs AOL Instant Messenger
client 

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-tnt.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-tnt-toggle-autospeak (&optional PREFIX)
Toggle TNT autospeak for this chat session.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-url-template
@section emacspeak-url-template

Commentary:
It is often useful to have ``parameterized hot list entries''
i.e., hotlist entries  that are ``templates'' for the
actual URL.
The user provides values for the parameterized portons
of the URL e.g. the date.
See @xref{URL Templates}, for details on the URL templates
that are presently defined.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-url-template.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-url-template-fetch (&optional DOCUMENTATION)
@kbd{ control e u }

Fetch a pre-defined resource.
Use Emacs completion to obtain a list of available resources.
Resources typically prompt for the relevant information
before completing the request.
Optional interactive prefix arg displays documentation for specified resource.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-url-template-help ()
Display documentation for  a URL template.
Use Emacs completion to obtain a list of available
resources.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-url-template-load (FILE)
Load URL template resources from specified location.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-url-template-save (FILE)
Save out url templates.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-view
@section emacspeak-view

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-view.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-line-to-top ()
Moves current line to top of window
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-view-process
@section emacspeak-view-process

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-view-process.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-process-goto-current-field-next-line ()
Set point to the current field in the next line.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-process-speak-current-field ()
Speak current field
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-vm
@section emacspeak-vm

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-vm.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-vm-browse-message ()
Browse an email message --read it paragraph at a time. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-vm-catch-up-all-messages ()
Mark all messages in folder to be deleted. Use with caution.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-vm-locate-subject-line ()
Locates the subject line in a message being read.
Useful when you're reading a message
that has been forwarded multiple times.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-vm-mode-line ()
VM mode line information. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-vm-next-button (N)
Move point to N buttons forward.
If N is negative, move backward instead.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-vm-speak-labels ()
Speak a message's labels
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-vm-yank-header ()
Yank specified header into kill ring.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-w3
@section emacspeak-w3

Commentary:
Ensure that speech support for W3 gets installed and
loaded correctly.
The emacs W3 browser comes with builtin support for
Emacspeak and ACSS

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-w3.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-freeamp (RESOURCE)
@kbd{ control e control f o }

Play specified resource using freeamp.
Resource is an  MP3 file or m3u playlist.
The player is placed in a buffer in emacspeak-freeamp-mode.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-realaudio (&optional IGNORED)
@kbd{ control e ; }

Start or control streaming audio including MP3 and
realaudio.  If using `TRPlayer' as the player, accepts
trplayer control commands if a stream is already playing.
Otherwise, the playing stream is simply stopped.  If no
stream is playing, this command prompts for a realaudio
resource.  Realaudio resources can be specified either as a
Realaudio URL, the location of a local Realaudio file, or as
the name of a local Realaudio metafile. Realaudio resources
you have played in this session are available in the
minibuffer history.  The default is to play the resource you
played most recently. Emacspeak uses the contents of the
directory specified by variable
emacspeak-realaudio-shortcuts-directory to offer a set of
completions. Hit space to use this completion list.

If using TRPlayer, you can either give one-shot commands
using command emacspeak-realaudio available from anywhere on
the audio desktop as `C-e ;'.
Alternatively, switch to buffer *realaudio* using
`C-e ;;' if you wish to issue many
navigation commands.  Note that buffer *realaudio* uses a
special major mode that provides the various navigation
commands via single keystrokes.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-browse-rss-at-point ()
Browses RSS url under point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-browse-url-with-style (STYLE URL)
Browse URL with specified XSL style.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-browse-xml (LOCATION &optional PROMPT-STYLE)
Browse XML+CSS using W3.
With interactive prefix arg, also prompt for an  XSL stylesheet.
XML files can be rendered by an XML browser that is CSS aware.
Emacs/W3 is not quite a complete XML+CSS browser, but it  does a
good enough job for many things, especially the XML files from
bookshare.org.
Setting W3 up at present to display any and all XML files at
present would be a bug, since W3 is an HTML browser --not a true
XML browser.
This command opens a specified XML file under the covers and has
W3 render it using CSS as available. The result on bookshare.org
XML files is quite usable:

0) You get Aural CSS support.

1) You get a navigable buffer using imenu if you have w3-imenu
loaded. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-browse-xml-url-with-style (STYLE URL &optional UNESCAPE-CHARENT)
Browse XML URL with specified XSL style.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-class-filter-and-follow (&optional PROMPT-CLASS)
Follow url and point, and filter the result by specified class.
Class can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-count-matches (PROMPT-URL LOCATOR)
Count matches for locator  in HTML.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-count-nested-tables (PROMPT-URL)
Count nested tables in HTML.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-count-tables (PROMPT-URL)
Count  tables in HTML.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-customize-base-uri-pronunciation ()
Defines custom buffer local pronunciation for base URI.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-do-onclick ()
Do  onclick action.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-by-class (CLASS &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract elements having specified class attribute from HTML. Extracts
specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a separate
buffer. Optional arg url specifies the page to extract content from.
Interactive use provides list of class values as completion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-by-class-list (CLASSES &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract elements having class specified in list `classes' from HTML.
Extracts specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a
separate buffer. Optional arg url specifies the page to extract
content from. Interactive use provides list of class values as
completion. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-matching-urls (PATTERN &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extracts links whose URL matches pattern.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-media-streams (&optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract links to media streams.
operate on current web page when in a W3 buffer; otherwise prompt for url.
`prompt-url' is the URL to process. Prompts for URL when called
interactively. Optional arg `speak' specifies if the result should be
spoken automatically.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-media-streams-under-point ()
In W3 mode buffers, extract media streams from url under point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-nested-table (TABLE-INDEX &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract nested table specified by `table-index'. Default is to
operate on current web page when in a W3 buffer; otherwise
`prompt-url' is the URL to process. Prompts for URL when called
interactively. Optional arg `speak' specifies if the result should be
spoken automatically.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-nested-table-list (TABLES &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract specified list of tables from a WWW page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-node-by-id (URL NODE-ID)
Extract specified node from URI.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-print-streams (&optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract links to printable  streams.
operate on current web page when in a W3 buffer; otherwise prompt for url.
`prompt-url' is the URL to process. Prompts for URL when called
interactively. Optional arg `speak' specifies if the result should be
spoken automatically.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-table-by-match (MATCH &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract table containing  specified match.
 Optional arg url specifies the page to extract content from.
Interactive prefix arg causes url to be read from the minibuffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-table-by-position (POSITION &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract table at specified position.
 Optional arg url specifies the page to extract content from.
Interactive prefix arg causes url to be read from the minibuffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-tables-by-match-list (MATCH-LIST &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract specified  tables from a WWW page.
Tables are specified by containing  match pattern 
 found in the match list.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-extract-tables-by-position-list (POSITIONS &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Extract specified list of nested tables from a WWW page.
Tables are specified by their position in the list 
nested of tables found in the page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-google-extract-from-cache ()
Extract current  page from the Google cache.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-google-on-this-site ()
Perform a google search restricted to the current WWW site.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-google-similar-to-this-page ()
Ask Google to find documents similar to this one.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-google-who-links-to-this-page ()
Perform a google search to locate documents that link to the
current page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-javascript-follow-link ()
Follow URL hidden inside a javascript link
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-jump-to-submit ()
Jump to next available submit button.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-jump-to-title-in-content ()
Jumps to the occurrence of document title in page body.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-junk-by-class-list (CLASSES &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK)
Junk elements having class specified in list `classes' from HTML.
Extracts specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a
separate buffer. Optional arg url specifies the page to extract
content from. Interactive use provides list of class values as
completion. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-lynx-url-under-point ()
Display contents of URL under point using LYNX.  The
document is displayed in a separate buffer. Note that the
hyperlinks in that display are not active-- this facility is
present only to help me iron out the remaining problems with
the table structure extraction code in W3.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-next-doc-element (&optional COUNT)
Move forward  to the next document element.
Optional interactive prefix argument COUNT 
specifies by how many eleemnts to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-next-parsed-item ()
Move to and speak next parsed item.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-preview-this-buffer ()
Preview this buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-preview-this-region (START END)
Preview this region.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-previous-doc-element (&optional COUNT)
Move back  to the previous document element.
Optional interactive prefix argument COUNT 
specifies by how many eleemnts to move.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-realaudio-play-url-at-point (&optional PROMPT-TIME)
Play url under point as realaudio
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-set-xsl-keep-result (VALUE)
Set value of `emacspeak-w3-xsl-keep-result'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-show-anchor-class ()
Display any class attributes set on corresponding anchor
element. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-show-http-headers ()
Show HTTP headers using lwp-request
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-speak-next-element ()
Speak next document element.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-speak-this-element ()
Speak document element under point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-toggle-table-borders ()
Toggle drawing of W3 table borders
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-url-expand-and-execute ()
Applies buffer-specific URL expander/executor function.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-url-rewrite-and-follow (&optional PROMPT)
Apply a url rewrite rule as specified in the current buffer
before following link under point.  If no rewrite rule is
defined, first prompt for one.  Rewrite rules are of the
form `(from to)' where from and to are strings.  Typically,
the rewrite rule is automatically set up by Emacspeak tools
like websearch where a rewrite rule is known.  Rewrite rules
are useful in jumping directly to the printer friendly
version of an article for example.
Optional interactive prefix arg  prompts for a rewrite rule
even if one is already defined.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-xpath-filter-and-follow (&optional PROMPT)
Follow url and point, and filter the result by specified xpath.
XPath can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-xpath-junk-and-follow (&optional PROMPT)
Follow url and point, and filter the result by junking
elements specified xpath.
XPath can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-xsl-toggle ()
Toggle  application of XSL transformations.
This uses XSLT Processor xsltproc available as part of the
libxslt package.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-xslt-apply (XSL)
Apply specified transformation to current page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-xslt-filter (PATH &optional PROMPT-URL SPEAK-RESULT COMPLEMENT)
Extract elements matching specified XPath path locator
from HTML.  Extracts specified elements from current WWW
page and displays it in a separate buffer.  Optional arg url
specifies the page to extract table from.
Optional arg COMPLEMENT inverts the filter.  
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-xslt-junk (PATH &optional PROMPT-URL)
Junk elements matching specified locator.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-w3-xslt-select (XSL)
Select XSL transformation applied to WWW pages before they are displayed .
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-w3search
@section emacspeak-w3search

Commentary:
Site-specific websearch enhancements

(emacspeak-websearch-set-searcher 'ibm-internal
                                  'emacspeak-websearch-ibm-internal)

(emacspeak-websearch-set-key ?I'ibm-internal)

(defvar emacspeak-websearch-ibm-internal-uri
  "http://trevi.almaden.ibm.com/TreviSearch/search?query=%s&btnG=Search+IBM&mode=query&toolbarUsed=false"
  "*URI for IBM internal  search")

(defun emacspeak-websearch-ibm-internal (query )
  "Search IBM using trevi"
  (interactive
   (list
    (emacspeak-websearch-read-query "IBM Internal  Search ")))
  (declare (special emacspeak-websearch-ibm-internal-uri))
    (browse-url 
     (format  emacspeak-websearch-ibm-internal-uri
(webjump-url-encode query)))
  )

(provide 'emacspeak-w3search)

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-w3search.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-ibm-internal (QUERY)
Search IBM using trevi
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-websearch
@section emacspeak-websearch

Commentary:
This module provides utility functions for searching the WWW

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-websearch.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-alltheweb-search (QUERY)
Perform an AllTheWeb  search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-altavista-search (QUERY)
Perform an Altavista search
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-amazon-search ()
Amazon search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-ask-jeeves (QUERY)
Ask Jeeves for the answer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-bbc-search (QUERY)
Search BBC archives.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-biblio-search (QUERY)
Search Computer Science Bibliographies.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-blinkx-search (QUERY)
BlinkX RSS Generator.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-britannica-search (QUERY)
Search Encyclopedia Britannica.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-citeseer-search (TERM)
Perform a CiteSeer search. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-company-news (TICKER &optional PREFIX)
Perform an company news lookup.
Retrieves company news, research, profile, insider trades,  or upgrades/downgrades.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-cpan-search (QUERY)
Search CPAN  Comprehensive Perl Archive Network   Site. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-ctan-search (QUERY)
Search CTAN Comprehensive TeX Archive Network   Site. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-dictionary-hypertext-webster-search (QUERY)
Search the Webster Dictionary.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-dispatch (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e ? }

Launches specific websearch queries.
Press `?' to list available search engines.
Once selected, the selected searcher prompts for additional information as appropriate.
When using W3,  this interface attempts to speak the most relevant information on the result page.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-display-form (FORM-MARKUP)
Display form specified by form-markup.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-ebay-search ()
Ebay search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-emaps-search (QUERY &optional USE-NEAR)
Perform EmapSpeak search.
Query is a Google Maps query in plain English.
Interactive prefix arg `use-near' searches near our previously cached  location.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-emapspeak-near-my-location (QUERY)
Perform search relative to `my-location'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-exchange-rate-convertor (CONVERSION-SPEC)
Currency convertor.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-foldoc-search (QUERY)
Perform a FolDoc search. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-freshmeat-search (QUERY)
Search Freshmeat  Site. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-froogle (QUERY)
Perform a Froogle search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-google (QUERY &optional LUCKY)
Perform a Google search.
Optional interactive prefix arg `lucky' is equivalent to hitting the 
I'm Feeling Lucky button on Google.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-advanced ()
Present Google advanced search form simplified for speech interaction.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-feeling-lucky (QUERY)
Do a I'm Feeling Lucky Google search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-search-in-date-range ()
Use this from inside the calendar to do Google date-range searches.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-specialize (SPECIALIZE QUERY)
Perform a specialized Google search. See the Google site for
  what is possible here:
http://www.google.com/options/specialsearches.html 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-usenet-advanced ()
Present Google Usenet advanced search form simplified for speech interaction.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-gutenberg (TYPE QUERY)
Perform an Gutenberg search
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-help ()
Displays key mapping used by Emacspeak Websearch.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-koders-search (QUERY)
Perform a koders.com  search
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-map-directions-search (QUERY &optional MAP)
Get driving directions from Yahoo.
With optional interactive prefix arg MAP shows the location map instead.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-merriam-webster-search (QUERY)
Search the Merriam Webster Dictionary.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-my-rss-search (QUERY)
My RSS search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-news-yahoo (QUERY &optional NO-RSS)
Perform an Yahoo News search.
Optional prefix arg no-rss scrapes information from HTML.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-northern-light (QUERY)
Perform a Northern Light  search
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-open-directory-search (QUERY)
Perform an Open Directory search
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-people-yahoo ()
Perform an Yahoo  people search
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-podscope ()
Perform a PodScope search to locate podcasts.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-quotes-yahoo-search (QUERY &optional PREFIX)
Perform a Quotes Yahoo .  
Default tickers to look up is taken from variable
emacspeak-websearch-personal-portfolio.
Default is to present the data in emacspeak's table browsing
mode --optional interactive prefix arg
causes data to be displayed y W3 as a WWW page.
You can customize the defaults by setting variable
emacspeak-websearch-quotes-yahoo-options to an appropriate string.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-recorded-books-search ()
Present advanced search form for recorded books.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-rpm-find (QUERY)
Search RPM  catalog  site.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-shoutcast-search ()
Shoutcast search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-software-search ()
Search SourceForge, Freshmeat and other sites. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-sourceforge-search (QUERY)
Search SourceForge Site. 
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-swik-search (QUERY)
Search swik software community site.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-teoma (QUERY)
Perform an Teoma  search.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-usenet (GROUP &optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e  cap U  }

Prompt and browse a Usenet newsgroup.
Optional interactive prefix arg results in prompting for a search term.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-usenet-search (GROUP)
Search a Usenet newsgroup.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-w3c-search (QUERY)
Search the W3C Site.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-weather (QUERY)
Get weather forecast for specified zip code.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-wikipedia-search (QUERY)
Search Wikipedia
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-yahoo (QUERY)
Perform an Yahoo  search
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-historical-chart (TICKER &optional AS-HTML)
Look up historical stock data.
Optional second arg as-html processes the results as HTML rather than data.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-widget
@section emacspeak-widget

Commentary:
This module implements the necessary extensions to provide talking
widgets.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-widget.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-widget-browse-widget-interactively ()
Allows you to browse a widget
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-widget-help ()
Speak help for widget under point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-widget-summarize-parent ()
Summarize parent of widget at point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-widget-summarize-widget-under-point (&optional LEVEL)
Summarize a widget if any under point.
Optional interactive prefix specifies how many levels to go up from current
widget before summarizing.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-widget-update-from-minibuffer (POINT)
Sets widget at point by invoking its prompter.
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-wizards
@section emacspeak-wizards

Commentary:
Contains various wizards for the Emacspeak desktop.

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-wizards.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-annotate-add-annotation (&optional RESET)
Add annotation to the annotation working buffer.
Prompt for annotation buffer if not already set.
Interactive prefix arg `reset' prompts for the annotation
buffer even if one is already set.
Annotation is entered in a temporary buffer and the
annotation is inserted into the working buffer when complete.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-clipboard-copy (START END &optional PROMPT)
@kbd{ control e control c }

Copy contents of the region to the emacspeak clipboard.
Previous contents of the clipboard will be overwritten.  The Emacspeak
clipboard is a convenient way of sharing information between
independent Emacspeak sessions running on the same or different
machines.  Do not use this for sharing information within an Emacs
session --Emacs' register commands are far more efficient and
light-weight.  Optional interactive prefix arg results in Emacspeak
prompting for the clipboard file to use.
Argument START and END specifies  region.
Optional argument PROMPT  specifies whether we prompt for the name of a clipboard file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-clipboard-paste (&optional PASTE-TABLE)
@kbd{ control e control y }

Yank contents of the Emacspeak clipboard at point.
The Emacspeak clipboard is a convenient way of sharing information between
independent Emacspeak sessions running on the same or different
machines.  Do not use this for sharing information within an Emacs
session --Emacs' register commands are far more efficient and
light-weight.  Optional interactive prefix arg pastes from
the emacspeak table clipboard instead.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-copy-current-file ()
@kbd{ control e meta c }

Copy file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when copying.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Asks for confirmation if the copy will result in an
  existing file being overwritten.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-customize ()
@kbd{ control e  cap C  }

Customize Emacspeak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-customize-personal-settings (FILE)
Create a customization buffer for browsing and updating
personal customizations.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-cvs-get-anonymous ()
@kbd{ control e <control down> }

Get latest cvs snapshot of emacspeak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-cvs-gnu-get-project-snapshot (PROJECT)
Grab CVS snapshot  of specified project from GNU.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-cvs-sf-get-project-snapshot (PROJECT)
Grab CVS snapshot  of specified project from Sourceforge.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart ()
For use in an emergency.
Will start TTS engine specified by 
emacspeak-emergency-tts-server.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-frame-label-or-switch-to-labelled-frame (&optional PREFIX)
@kbd{ control e meta f }

Switch to labelled frame.
With optional PREFIX argument, label current frame.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-frame-read-frame-label ()
Read a frame label with completion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-generate-documentation (FILENAME)
Generate docs for all emacspeak commands.
Prompts for FILENAME in which to save the documentation.
Warning! Contents of file filename will be overwritten.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-generate-texinfo-command-documentation (FILENAME)
Generate texinfo documentation  for all emacspeak
commands  into file commands.texi.
Warning! Contents of file commands.texi will be overwritten.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-generate-texinfo-option-documentation (FILENAME)
Generate texinfo documentation  for all emacspeak
options  into file filename.
Warning! Contents of file filename will be overwritten.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-kill-buffer-quietly ()
Kill current buffer without asking for confirmation.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-learn-mode ()
@kbd{ control e control h }

Helps you learn the keys.  You can press keys and hear what they do.
To leave, press C-g.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-link-current-file ()
@kbd{ control e meta l }

Link (hard link) file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when linking.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Signals an error if target already exists.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-links (URL)
Launch links on  specified URL in a new terminal.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-lynx (URL)
Launch lynx on  specified URL in a new terminal.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-next-frame-or-buffer (&optional FRAME)
@kbd{ <control right> }

Move to next buffer.
With optional interactive prefix arg `frame', move to next frame instead.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-previous-frame-or-buffer (&optional FRAME)
@kbd{ <control left> }

Move to previous buffer.
With optional interactive prefix arg `frame', move to previous frame instead.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-root (&optional CD)
@kbd{ control e control r }

Start a root shell or switch to one that already exists.
Optional interactive prefix arg `cd' executes cd
default-directory after switching.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-select-this-buffer-next-display ()
@kbd{ control e <control right> }

Select this buffer as displayed in a `next' frame.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `next'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display (&optional ARG)
Switch  to this buffer as displayed in a different frame.  Emacs
allows you to display the same buffer in multiple windows or
frames.  These different windows can display different
portions of the buffer.  This is equivalent to leaving a
book open at places at once.  This command allows you to
move to the places where you have left the book open.  The
number used to invoke this command specifies which of the
displays you wish to select.  Typically you will have two or
at most three such displays open.  The current display is 0,
the next is 1, and so on.  Optional argument ARG specifies
the display to select.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-select-this-buffer-previous-display ()
@kbd{ control e <control left> }

Select this buffer as displayed in a `previous' window.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `previous'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-show-personality-at-point ()
@kbd{ control e meta v }

Show value of property personality (and possibly face)
at point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-show-property-at-point (&optional PROPERTY)
@kbd{ control e meta p }

Show value of PROPERTY at point.
If optional arg property is not supplied, read it interactively.
Provides completion based on properties that are of interest.
If no property is set, show a message and exit.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-backward ()
@kbd{ <shift> <up> }

Move backward  across blank lines.
The line under point is   then spoken.
Signals beginning  of buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-forward ()
@kbd{ <shift> <down> }

Move forward across blank lines.
The line under point is then spoken.
Signals end of buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-browse-linux-howto (HOWTO)
@kbd{ control e  cap H  }

Browse a Linux Howto file.
We cleanup underlining, and set up outline mode correctly.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-hostname ()
@kbd{ control e meta h }

Speak host name.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-popup-messages ()
@kbd{ control h  cap M    <f1>  cap M    <help>  cap M  }

Pop up messages buffer.
If it is already selected then hide it and try to restore
previous window configuration.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-run-shell-command (COMMAND &optional AS-ROOT)
@kbd{ control e ! }

Invoke shell COMMAND and display its output as a table.  The results
are placed in a buffer in Emacspeak's table browsing mode.  Optional
interactive prefix arg as-root runs the command as root (not yet
implemented).  Use this for running shell commands that produce
tabulated output.  This command should be used for shell commands that
produce tabulated output that works with Emacspeak's table recognizer.
Verify this first by running the command in a shell and executing
command `emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region' normally bound to
C-e TAB.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces (&optional ADDRESS)
@kbd{ control e  cap I  }

Shows all active network interfaces in the echo area.
With interactive prefix argument ADDRESS it prompts for a
specific interface and shows its address. The address is
also copied to the kill ring for convenient yanking.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-show-memory-used ()
Convenience command to view state of memory used in this session so far.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory (&optional EDIT)
Lookup and display a phone number.
With prefix arg, opens the phone book for editting.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-next-display ()
@kbd{ control e <right> }

Speak this buffer as displayed in a `previous' window.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `next'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display (&optional ARG)
@kbd{ control e / }

Speak this buffer as displayed in a different frame.  Emacs
allows you to display the same buffer in multiple windows or
frames.  These different windows can display different
portions of the buffer.  This is equivalent to leaving a
book open at places at once.  This command allows you to
listen to the places where you have left the book open.  The
number used to invoke this command specifies which of the
displays you wish to speak.  Typically you will have two or
at most three such displays open.  The current display is 0,
the next is 1, and so on.  Optional argument ARG specifies
the display to speak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-previous-display ()
@kbd{ control e <aleft> }

Speak this buffer as displayed in a `previous' window.
See documentation for command
`emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display' for the
meaning of `previous'.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-sudo (COMMAND)
SUDo command --run command as super user.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-switch-to-previous-buffer ()
Switch to most recently used interesting buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-symlink-current-file ()
@kbd{ control e meta s }

Link (symbolic link) file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when linking.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Signals an error if target already exists.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-emacspeak-doc ()
@kbd{ control e  cap D  }

Display a summary of all Emacspeak commands.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-emacspeak-faq ()
@kbd{ control e  cap F  }

Browse the Emacspeak FAQ.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-emacspeak-news ()
@kbd{ control e  cap N  }

Display info on recent change to Emacspeak.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-view-emacspeak-tips ()
@kbd{ control e  cap T  }

Browse  Emacspeak productivity tips.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-count-slides-in-region ()
Count slides starting from point.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-dvi-display ()
Called to set up preview of an DVI file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .DVI file.
Previews those contents as text and nukes the buffer
visiting the DVI file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-dvi-mode ()
Major mode for browsing DVI files.

DVI files  are converted to text and previewed using text mode.

This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-dvi-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-edit-file-as-root (FILENAME)
Edit file as root using sudo vi.
See /etc/sudoers for how to set up sudo.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-grep (GLOB PATTERN)
Run compile using find and grep. 
Interactive  arguments specify filename pattern and search pattern.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-line-in-region (START END)
Find longest line in region.
Moves to the longest line when called interactively.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-paragraph-in-region (START END)
Find longest paragraph in region.
Moves to the longest paragraph when called interactively.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-finder-find (DIRECTORY)
Run find-dired on specified switches after prompting for the
directory to where find is to be launched.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode ()
Emacspeak Finder

This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-fix-read-only-text (START END)
Nuke read-only property on text range.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-fix-typo (EXT WORD CORRECTION)
Search and replace  recursively in all files with extension `ext'
for `word' and replace it with correction.
Use with caution.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-generate-finder ()
Generate a widget-enabled finder wizard.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-generate-voice-sampler (STEP)
Generate a buffer that shows a sample line in all the ACSS settings
for the current voice family.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-file (TASK FILE DEPTH COUNT)
Extract table specified by depth and count from HTML
content at file.
Extracted content is placed as a csv file in task.csv.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-url (TASK URL DEPTH COUNT)
Extract table specified by depth and count from HTML
content at URL.
Extracted content is placed as a csv file in task.csv.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-google-hits ()
Filter Google results after performing search to show just the
hits.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-how-many-matches (START END &optional PREFIX)
If you define a file local variable 
called `emacspeak-occur-pattern' that holds a regular expression 
that matches  lines of interest, you can use this command to conveniently
run `how-many' to count  matching header lines.
With interactive prefix arg, prompts for and remembers the file local pattern.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-move-and-speak (COMMAND COUNT)
Speaks a chunk of text bounded by point and a target position.
Target position is specified using a navigation command and a
count that specifies how many times to execute that command
first.
Point is left at the target position.
Interactively, command is specified by pressing the key that
;;invokes the command.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-occur-header-lines (PREFIX)
If you define a file local variable called
`emacspeak-occur-pattern' that holds a regular expression that
matches header lines, you can use this command to conveniently
run `occur' to find matching header lines. With prefix arg,
prompts for and sets value of the file local pattern.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-portfolio-quotes ()
Bring up detailed stock quotes for portfolio specified by 
emacspeak-websearch-personal-portfolio.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-ppp-toggle ()
Bring up or bring down ppp.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-ppt-display ()
Called to set up preview of an PPT file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .ppt file.
Previews those contents as HTML and nukes the buffer
visiting the ppt file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode ()
Major mode for browsing PPT slides.

PPT files  are converted to HTML and previewed using W3.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-rivo (WHEN CHANNEL LENGTH OUTPUT DIRECTORY)
Rivo wizard.
Prompts for relevant information and schedules a rivo job using
  UNIX AT scheduling facility.
RIVO is implemented by rivo.pl ---
 a Perl script  that can be used to launch realaudio and record
   streaming media for  a specified duration.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-rpm-query-in-dired ()
Run rpm -qi on current dired entry.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-shell-toggle ()
@kbd{ control e <f11> }

Switch to the shell buffer and cd to 
 the directory of the current buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-commentary (&optional FILE)
Display commentary. Default is to display commentary from current buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-environment-variable (V)
Display value of specified environment variable.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-face (FACE)
Show salient properties of specified face.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-list-variable (VAR)
Convenience command to view Emacs variables that are long lists.
Prompts for a variable name and displays its value in a separate buffer.
Lists are displayed one element per line.
Argument VAR specifies variable whose value is to be displayed.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-speak-iso-datetime (ISO)
Make ISO date-time speech friendly.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-spot-words (EXT WORD)
Searches recursively in all files with extension `ext'
for `word' and displays hits in a compilation buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-squeeze-blanks (START END)
Squeeze multiple blank lines in current buffer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-terminal (PROGRAM)
Launch terminal and rename buffer appropriately.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-toggle-mm-dd-yyyy-date-pronouncer ()
Toggle pronunciation of mm-dd-yyyy dates.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-tpctl-display-status ()
Show display status on thinkpads using tpctl.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location (NAME)
Open specified tramp location.
Location is specified by name.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-unhex-uri (URI)
UnEscape URI
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-units ()
Run units in a comint sub-process.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-use-w3-or-w3m ()
Alternates between using W3 and W3M for browse-url.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-n ()
Accelerator for VC viewer.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer (CONSOLE)
View contents of specified virtual console.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-mode ()
Major mode for interactively viewing virtual console contents.

key             binding
---             -------

C-l		emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-refresh

This mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-refresh ()
Refresh view of VC we're viewing.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-vi-as-su-file (FILE)
Launch sudo vi on specified file in a terminal.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-voice-sampler (PERSONALITY)
Read a personality  and apply it to the current line.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-vpn-toggle ()
Bring up or bring down vpn.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-xl-display ()
Called to set up preview of an XL file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .xls file.
Previews those contents as HTML and nukes the buffer
visiting the xls file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode ()
Major mode for browsing XL spreadsheets.

XL Sheets are converted to HTML and previewed using W3.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `text-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end deffn

@node emacspeak-xml-shell
@section emacspeak-xml-shell

Automatically generated documentation
for commands defined in module  emacspeak-xml-shell.

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell (SYSTEM-ID)
Start Xml-Shell on contents of system-id.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current ()
Display current node.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-result (XPATH)
Display XPath  and display its result using W3.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children ()
Navigate down to the children of current node.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child ()
Navigate forward  to the next child  of current node.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent ()
Navigate up to the parent of current node.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child ()
Navigate backward  to the previous child  of current node.
@end deffn

@deffn {Interactive Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-mode ()
XML Shell

Interactive XML browser.
key             binding
---             -------

C-c		Prefix Command
<down>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children
<up>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent
<right>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child
<left>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child

C-c v		emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current
C-c C-v		emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-result

In addition to any hooks its parent mode `comint-mode' might have run,
this mode runs the hook `emacspeak-xml-shell-mode-hook', as the final step
during initialization.
@end deffn

@node URL Templates 
@section  URL Templates

This section is generated automatically from the source-level documentation.
Any errors or corrections should be made to the source-level
documentation.
This section documents a total of 93 URL Templates.

All of these URL templates can be invoked via command
  @kbd{M-x emacspeak-url-template-fetch} normally bound to
  @kbd{ control e u }.
This command prompts for the name of the template, and completion
  is available via Emacs' minibuffer completion.
Each URL template carries out the following steps:
@itemize @bullet
@item Prompt for the relevant information.
@item Fetch the resulting URL using an appropriate fetcher.
@item Set up the resulting resource with appropriate
  customizations.
@end itemize

As an example, the URL templates that enable access to NPR media
streams prompt for a program id and date, and automatically
launch the realmedia player after fetching the resource.

@kbd{Airport conditions}

Display airport conditions from the FAA.

@kbd{All Things Considered Stream from NPR}

Play NPR All Things Considered stream.

@kbd{All Things Considered from NPR}

Play All Things Considered segment.

@kbd{Amazon Product Details By ASIN}

Retrieve product details from Amazon by either ISBN or ASIN.

@kbd{American Life On Demand.}

Play This American Life  shows on demand.

@kbd{BBC 7 Schedule}

Retrieve BBC7 schedule for specified day.

@kbd{BBC Channel On Demand}

Display BBC Channel on demand.

@kbd{BBC Genres On Demand}

Display BBC Channel on demand.

@kbd{BBC Listen Again}

BBC Listen Again Listings

@kbd{BBC News}

BBC News text version.

@kbd{BBC Programs On Demand}

Play BBC programs on demand.

@kbd{BBC Radio4 On Demand}

Specify a week day (three letters -- lower case -- and a time spec
-- e.g. 1230 --
to play a BBC Radio4 program on demand.

@kbd{BBC Radio7 On Demand}

Specify a week day (three letters -- lower case -- and a time spec
-- e.g. 1230 --
to play a BBC Radio7 program on demand.

@kbd{BBC Sports}

BBC News text version.

@kbd{Baseball Game Index}

Display baseball Play By Play.

@kbd{Baseball Play By Play}

Display baseball Play By Play.

@kbd{Baseball Results}

Baseball results for a given date.

@kbd{Baseball scores}

Display baseball scores.

@kbd{Baseball standings}

Display MLB standings.

@kbd{Baseball summary}

Display baseball team summary.

@kbd{BookShare}

Bookshare Login

@kbd{CNN Content }

CNN Content

@kbd{CNN Market Data }

CNN Money

@kbd{CNN Market News }

CNN Money

@kbd{CNN Tecnology }

CNN Technology news.

@kbd{CNN headlines }

Retrieve and speak headline news from CNN.

@kbd{CNNFn Content}

Extract content links from CNN FN.

@kbd{Cartoon You Said It By Laxman}

Retrieve Cartoon Times Of India.

@kbd{DDJ TechNetCast Play}

Play Technetcast stream from DDJ.

@kbd{DDJ TechNetCast Save}

Browse to a specified DDJ Technetcast stream and save  it.

@kbd{EmapSpeak Via Google}

EmapSpeak Via Google.

Specify the query using English and  addresses as complete as
  possible.

Here are some examples:

0) To find a location by address specify:

650 Harry Road San Jose CA 95120

1) To get directions, specify:

<source address> to <destination address>

2) To find businesses etc., near a location, specify:

<what> near <location address>

@kbd{Flight Tracker}

Display flight arrival and departure information.

@kbd{Geek Linux Daily}

Play specified edition of Geek  Linux DailyShow

@kbd{Google Feeds}

List  Google news Feeds.

@kbd{Google Glossary}

Google Glossary lookup.

@kbd{Google Headline News}

Retrieve and speak Google News Overview.

@kbd{Google Hits}

Only show Google hits.

@kbd{Google Maps Give Me XML}

Get me XML from Google Maps.
Specify the query using English and  addresses as complete as
  possible.

Here are some examples:

0) To find a location by address specify:

650 Harry Road San Jose CA 95120

1) To get directions, specify:

<source address> to <destination address>

2) To find businesses etc., near a location, specify:

<what> near <location address>

@kbd{Google News Search}

Search Google news.

@kbd{Google Print}

Google Print Search

@kbd{Google RSS News}

Search Google news.

@kbd{Google Scholar}

Google Scholar Search

@kbd{Google Text  News}

Retrieve and speak Google News Overview.

@kbd{Google WebQuotes}

Google WebQuotes.

@kbd{InfoWorld RSS Feeds}

Produce  a set of RSS links published by InfoWorld.

@kbd{Linux Today News}

Get news column from Linux Today.

@kbd{MLB Alerts}

Show MLB Scorecard.

@kbd{MLB Scorecard}

Show MLB Scorecard.

@kbd{MapQuest Directions}

Retrieve and speak directions from MapQuest.

@kbd{Meerkat Profile}

Meerkat Profile

@kbd{Meerkat Recipe}

Meerkat tool

@kbd{Morning Edition Stream from NPR}

Play NPR Morning Edition  stream.

@kbd{Morning Edition from NPR}

Play Morning Edition segment.

@kbd{Motley Fool Radio from NPR}

Play NPR Motley Fool   stream.

@kbd{NPR On Demand}

Play NPR shows on demand.
Program is specified as a program code:

ME Morning Edition
ATC All Things Considered

Segment is specified as a two digit number --specifying a blank value
plays entire program.

@kbd{Netcraft Web Analysis}

Analyze WWW site using Netcraft.

@kbd{Old Time Radio}

This months Old Time Radio Programing

@kbd{Pulpit --- I Cringely}

Read pulpit from PBS. Published on the Thursday of the week.

@kbd{Redhat Linux Show}

Play specified edition of Redhat Linux Show

@kbd{Shoutcast Search}

Locate and display Shoutcast streams.

@kbd{Talk Of The Nation  Stream from NPR}

Play NPR Talk Of The Nation  stream.

@kbd{Talk Of The Nation from NPR}

Play NPR Talk Of The Nation segment.

@kbd{Tech News From CNet}

Display tech news from CNET

@kbd{Times Of India}

Retrieve Times Of India.
Set up URL rewrite rule to get print page.

@kbd{Translation Via Google}

Translate a Web page using google. Source and target languages
are specified as two-letter language codes, e.g. en|de translates
from English to German.

@kbd{Travel itenerary from ViewTrip.com}

Display Trip Details

@kbd{Travelocity Lookup}

Show arrival/departure information from Travelocity.

@kbd{UPS Packages}

Display package tracking information from UPS.

@kbd{Wait Wait, Dont Tell Me (NPR)}

Play Wait, Wait Dont Tell Me from NPR.

@kbd{Weather forecast from Weather Underground}

Weather forecast from weather underground mobile.

@kbd{Yahoo Business News}

Retrieve and speak business  section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo Content By Content ID}

Retrieve and speak news section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo DailyNews}

Retrieve and speak DailyNewspage from  Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo Entertainment}

Retrieve and speak Entertainment section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo Health}

Retrieve and speak Health section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo Lifestyle}

Yahoo Lifestyle News.

@kbd{Yahoo Oddly}

Retrieve and speak Oddity section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo Politics}

Retrieve and speak Politics section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo RSS Feeds}

List Yahoo RSS Feeds.

@kbd{Yahoo SF Local}

Retrieve and speak Local section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo Science}

Retrieve and speak Science section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo Sports}

Entertainment news from Yahoo.

@kbd{Yahoo Technology  News}

Yahoo Technology News.

@kbd{Yahoo Top Stories}

Retrieve and speak Top Stories  section from Yahoo Daily News.

@kbd{Yahoo World News}

Yahoo World News.

@kbd{fedex packages}

Display package tracking information from Fedex.

@kbd{pdf2html}

Use access.adobe.com to  convert a remote PDF document to plain
 text.
The PDF document needs to be available on the public Internet.

@kbd{pdf2txt}

Use access.adobe.com to  convert a remote PDF document to plain
 text.
The PDF document needs to be available on the public Internet.

@kbd{sourceforge Stats}

Display project usage statistics.

@kbd{sourceforge browse mirrors}

Retrieve download table  at Sourceforge for specified project.

@kbd{sourceforge project}

Open specified project page at SourceForge.

@kbd{w3c IRC Logs}

Use this to pull up the
archived  logs from the W3C IRC. You need to know the exact
name of the channel.

@kbd{w3c Lists}

Use this to pull up the
archived  mail from the W3C list. You need to know the exact
name of the list.

