\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@raggedright
@setfilename ./new-emacspeak-test.info
@settitle Emacspeak User's Manual --2nd Edition.
@smallbook
@finalout
@comment %**end of header

@ignore

This is the TEST version of this file, called new-emacspeak-test.texi

2003 May  5

This file provides for typeset output as well as Info output.  It
includes the copyright and menu that are in the preamble.texi and
copyright.texi files.  As a consequence, those files are not included
in this version of the manual using the @@include command.

To turn this file into the regular emacspeak.texi file, you need to
substute "emacspeak" for "new-emacspeak-test" using the query-replace command.
Change the Info file name from new-emacspeak-test.info and change the input and
output file names listed in the "Summary of shell commands" below.

Here are the two words for the query-replace command.  All instances
of "new-emacspeak-test" can be replaced by "emacspeak".

    emacspeak
    new-emacspeak-test

@end ignore


@ignore
 ## Summary of shell commands to create various output formats:

  ## Update the CVS repository to include the following:

    ## Info output
    makeinfo --force --fill-column=70 --no-split --paragraph-indent=0 \
    --verbose new-emacspeak-test.texi

    ## HTML output
    makeinfo --no-split --html --verbose new-emacspeak-test.texi

    ## Plain text output
    makeinfo --fill-column=70 --no-split --paragraph-indent=0 \
    --verbose --no-headers --output=new-emacspeak-test.txt \
    new-emacspeak-test.texi

    ## DVI output
    texi2dvi new-emacspeak-test.texi

    ## Create PostScript from DVI
    dvi2ps new-emacspeak-test.dvi > new-emacspeak-test.ps

    ## DocBook output
    makeinfo --docbook --no-split --paragraph-indent=0 --verbose \
    new-emacspeak-test.texi

    ## XML output using the XML Texinfo DTD
    makeinfo --xml --no-split --paragraph-indent=0 --verbose \
    new-emacspeak-test.texi

    ## To view on a high resolution display

       xdvi new-emacspeak-test.dvi &
       gv new-emacspeak-test.ps &
       galeon new-emacspeak-test.html &

    ## To listen in Emacspeak

       Start Emacspeak, visit the emacspeak/info directory that holds
       the Info file, and type Control-u Control-h i
       and then the name of the file.

       After Emacspeak has been fully intalled, you can listen to it
       by starting Info with the usual Control-h i command and then
       typing emacspeak.

@end ignore

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 1994 -- 2003 T.@: V.@: Raman

This manual documents Emacspeak, a speech interface to GNU Emacs.

@quotation
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies
of this entire document without royalty provided the
copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on
all copies.

@c    The remainder of this paragraph applies to and should
@c    appear in the Texinfo source.
@c Permission is granted to process this file through TeX or
@c other converter and publish the results, provided the
@c published document carries a copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this
@c paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the
@c published document).
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Accessibility
@dircategory Emacs
     @direntry
 * Emacspeak:(emacspeak).		Speech-enabled Audio Desktop.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@sp 6
@center @titlefont{Emacspeak}
@sp 2
@center T.@: V.@: Raman
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top, Announce, (dir), (dir)
@top Emacspeak
@insertcopying

This manual is divided into the following chapters:
@end ifnottex

@iftex
@summarycontents
@contents
@end iftex
@ifplaintext
@summarycontents
@contents
@end ifplaintext

@menu
* Announce: Announce.
* Introduction: Introduction.
* Installation: Installation.
* Basic Usage: Basic Usage.
* Audio Desktop: Audio Desktop.
* Using Online Help: Using Online Help.
* Emacs Packages:  Emacs Packages.
* Running Terminal Based Applications: Running Terminal Based Applications
* Emacspeak Commands:  Emacspeak Commands.
* Emacspeak Customizations:  Emacspeak Customizations.
* Acknowledgements: Acknowledgements.

Indices:

* Concept Index: Concept Index.
* Key Index: Key Index.
@end menu

@include announce.texi     
@include introduction.texi
@include install.texi
@include using.texi
@include audio-desktop.texi
@include online-help.texi
@include packages.texi
@include eterm.texi
@include commands.texi
@include options.texi
@include acknowledge.texi
@c trailer
     
@node Concept Index, Key Index, Acknowledgements, Top
@chapter Concept Index
@printindex cp

@node Key Index, , Concept Index, Top
@chapter Key Index
@printindex ky
     
@bye
