@node Emacspeak Commands And Options 

@chapter Emacspeak Commands And Options 

This chapter documents a total of 1183 commands and 1107 options.

@menu
* acss-structure::CSS -- Cascaded Speech Style structure.
* amixer::Control AMixer from Emacs.
* cd-tool::Play  CDs from Emacs.
* dectalk-voices::Define various device independent voices in terms of Dectalk codes.
* dom-addons::dom.el addons.
* dtk-interp::Language specific (e.g. TCL) interface to speech server.
* dtk-speak::Provides Emacs Lisp interface to speech server.
* dtk-unicode::Pronounce Unicode characters correctly.
* emacspeak::The Complete Audio Desktop.
* emacspeak-2048::Speech-enable 2048 Game.
* emacspeak-actions::Emacspeak actions -- callbacks that can be associated with portions of a buffer.
* emacspeak-add-log::Speech-enable add-log.
* emacspeak-advice::Advice Emacs Core.
* emacspeak-amark::BookMarks For Audio Content.
* emacspeak-analog::Speech-enable analog -- a log viewer.
* emacspeak-ansi-color::Speech-enable ansi-color terminal.
* emacspeak-apt-sources::speech-enable APT's sources.list file editor.
* emacspeak-arc::Speech enable archive-mode -- a  Emacs interface to zip and friends.
* emacspeak-auctex::Speech enable AucTeX -- a powerful TeX/LaTeX authoring environment.
* emacspeak-aumix::Configure audio device settings.
* emacspeak-bbc::Speech-enabled  BBC client.
* emacspeak-bbdb::Speech enable BBDB -- a powerful address manager.
* emacspeak-bibtex::Speech enable bibtex -- Supports maintaining bibliographies in bibtex format.
* emacspeak-bookmark::Speech enable Emacs' builtin bookmarks.
* emacspeak-bookshare::Speech-enabled  BOOKSHARE client.
* emacspeak-browse-kill-ring::browse-kill-ring  for emacspeak desktop.
* emacspeak-bs::speech-enable bs buffer selection.
* emacspeak-buff-menu::Speech enable Buffer Menu Mode -- used to manage buffers.
* emacspeak-c::Speech enable CC-mode and friends -- supports C, C++, Java.
* emacspeak-calc::Speech enable the Emacs Calculator -- a powerful symbolic algebra system.
* emacspeak-calculator::Speech enable  desktop calculator.
* emacspeak-calendar::Speech enable Emacs Calendar -- maintain a diary and appointments.
* emacspeak-cedet::Speech enable CEDET Development Environment.
* emacspeak-checkdoc::Speech-enable checkdoc.
* emacspeak-cider::Speech-enable CIDER, A Clojure IDE.
* emacspeak-ciel::Speech-enable CIEL.
* emacspeak-clojure::Speech-enable CLOJURE Mode.
* emacspeak-cmuscheme::Scheme support for emacspeak.
* emacspeak-company::Speech-enable COMPANY-mode.
* emacspeak-compile::Speech enable  navigation of  compile errors, grep matches.
* emacspeak-cperl::Speech enable CPerl Mode.
* emacspeak-custom::Speech enable interactive Emacs customization.
* emacspeak-dbus::DBus On Emacspeak Desktop.
* emacspeak-desktop::Speech-enable desktop.
* emacspeak-dictionary::speech-enable dictionaries.
* emacspeak-diff-mode::Speech-enable DIFF-MODE.
* emacspeak-dired::Speech enable Dired Mode -- A powerful File Manager.
* emacspeak-dismal::Speech enable Dismal -- An Emacs Spreadsheet program.
* emacspeak-dmacro::Speech enable DMacro -- Dynamic  Macros.
* emacspeak-ecb::speech-enable Emacs Class Browser.
* emacspeak-eclim::Speech-enable ECLIM: emacs/eclipse integration.
* emacspeak-ediary::Speech-enable ediary.
* emacspeak-ediff::Speech enable Emacs interface to diff and merge.
* emacspeak-ein::Speech-enable EIN For IPython Notebooks.
* emacspeak-elfeed::Speech-enable ELFEED, A Feed Reader.
* emacspeak-elisp-refs::Speech-enable ELISP-REFS.
* emacspeak-elpy::Speech-enable ELPY, A Python IDE.
* emacspeak-elscreen::Speech-enable ELSCREEN.
* emacspeak-emms::Speech-enable EMMS Multimedia UI.
* emacspeak-enriched::Audio Formatting for Emacs' WYSIWYG RichText  mode.
* emacspeak-entertain::Speech enable misc games.
* emacspeak-epa::Speech-enable EasyPG Assistant.
* emacspeak-eperiodic::Speech-enable Periodic Table.
* emacspeak-epub::epubs Front-end for emacspeak desktop.
* emacspeak-erc::speech-enable erc irc client.
* emacspeak-eshell::Speech-enable EShell - Emacs Shell.
* emacspeak-ess::Speech-enable ESS: Emacs Speaks Statistics.
* emacspeak-etable::Speech enable table.el.
* emacspeak-eterm::Speech enable eterm -- Emacs' terminal emulator  term.el.
* emacspeak-eudc::Speech enable  LDAP directory client.
* emacspeak-evil::Speech-enable EVIL.
* emacspeak-eww::Speech-enable EWW Browser.
* emacspeak-facemenu::Map default Emacs faces like bold to appropriate speech personalities.
* emacspeak-feeds::Feeds Support (Atom, RSS) For Emacspeak.
* emacspeak-filtertext::Utilities to filter text.
* emacspeak-find-dired::Speech enable  find-dired.
* emacspeak-find-func::Speech enable emacs' code finder.
* emacspeak-fix-interactive::Make  Emacs' builtin prompts   speak.
* emacspeak-flycheck::Speech-enable FLYCHECK.
* emacspeak-flyspell::Speech enable flyspell.
* emacspeak-folding::Speech enable Folding Mode -- enables structured editing.
* emacspeak-forms::Speech enable Emacs' forms mode  -- provides  a convenient database interface.
* emacspeak-ftf::Speech-enable find-things-fast.
* emacspeak-geiser::Speech-enable GEISER.
* emacspeak-generic::Speech enable  generic modes.
* emacspeak-gnuplot::speech-enable gnuplot mode.
* emacspeak-gnus::Speech enable GNUS -- Fluent spoken access to usenet.
* emacspeak-go-mode::Speech-enable GO-MODE.
* emacspeak-gomoku::Speech enable the game of Gomoku.
* emacspeak-google::Google Search Tools.
* emacspeak-gridtext::Overlay Grids To filter columnar text.
* emacspeak-gtags::Speech-enable GTAGS.
* emacspeak-gud::Speech enable Emacs' debugger interface --covers GDB, JDB, and PerlDB.
* emacspeak-helm::Speech-enable HELM.
* emacspeak-hide::Provides user commands for hiding and exposing blocks of text.
* emacspeak-hideshow::speech-enable hideshow.
* emacspeak-hydra::Speech-Enable hydra.
* emacspeak-ibuffer::speech-enable ibuffer buffer selection.
* emacspeak-ido::speech-enable ido.
* emacspeak-imenu::Speech enable Imenu -- produce buffer-specific table of contents.
* emacspeak-indium::Speech-enable INDIUM, A Javascript IDE.
* emacspeak-info::Speech enable Info -- Emacs' online documentation viewer.
* emacspeak-ispell::Speech enable Ispell -- Emacs' interactive spell checker.
* emacspeak-ivy::Speech-enable IVY.
* emacspeak-jabber::Speech-Enable jabber.
* emacspeak-jde::Speech enable JDE -- An integrated Java Development Environment.
* emacspeak-js2::Speech-enable JS2.
* emacspeak-jss::Speech-enable JSS.
* emacspeak-keymap::Setup  keymaps and keybindings provided by Emacspeak.
* emacspeak-kite::Speech-enable KITE.
* emacspeak-kmacro::Speech-enable kbd macro interface.
* emacspeak-librivox::LIBRIVOX API client.
* emacspeak-lua::Speech-enable LUA.
* emacspeak-m-player::Control mplayer from Emacs.
* emacspeak-magit::Speech-enable MAGIT: Git Client.
* emacspeak-make-mode::Speech enable make-mode.
* emacspeak-man::Speech enable Man mode -- Use this for UNIX Man pages.
* emacspeak-markdown::Speech-enable MARKDOWN-mode.el.
* emacspeak-maths::Audio-Formatted Mathematics.
* emacspeak-message::Speech enable Message -- Used to compose news postings and replies.
* emacspeak-metapost::speech-enable metapost mode.
* emacspeak-midge::Speech-enable MIDI editor.
* emacspeak-mpg123::Speech enable MP3 Player.
* emacspeak-mspools::Speech enable MSpools -- Monitor multiple mail drops.
* emacspeak-muggles::Convenience Hydras For The Emacspeak Desktop.
* emacspeak-muse::Speech-enable Muse.
* emacspeak-net-utils::Speech enable net-utils.
* emacspeak-newsticker::Speech-enable newsticker.
* emacspeak-npr::Speech-enabled  NPR client.
* emacspeak-nxml::Speech enable nxml mode.
* emacspeak-ocr::ocr Front-end for emacspeak desktop.
* emacspeak-org::Speech-enable org.
* emacspeak-outline::Speech enable Outline --   Browsing  Structured Documents.
* emacspeak-package::Speech-enable PACKAGE.
* emacspeak-paradox::Speech-enable PARADOX.
* emacspeak-perl::Speech enable Perl Mode.
* emacspeak-personality::Emacspeak's personality interface.
* emacspeak-php-mode::Speech-Enable php-mode.
* emacspeak-pianobar::Pandora Radio: Speech-enable PIANOBAR.
* emacspeak-popup::Speech-enable POPUP.
* emacspeak-proced::Speech-enable PROCED Task Manager.
* emacspeak-projectile::Speech-enable PROJECTILE.
* emacspeak-pronounce::Implements Emacspeak pronunciation dictionaries.
* emacspeak-py::Speech enable Python development environment.
* emacspeak-pydoc::Speech-enable PYDOC.
* emacspeak-python::Speech enable Python development environment.
* emacspeak-racket::Speech-enable RACKET.
* emacspeak-re-builder::speech-enable re-builder.
* emacspeak-redefine::Redefines some key Emacs builtins to speak.
* emacspeak-reftex::speech enable reftex, Cross-References In La)TeX.
* emacspeak-related::Speech-enable RELATED buffer switching.
* emacspeak-remote::Enables running remote Emacspeak sessions.
* emacspeak-replace::Speech enable interactive search and replace.
* emacspeak-rg::Speech-enable RG.
* emacspeak-rmail::Speech enable RMail -- Emacs' default mail agent.
* emacspeak-rpm::speech-enable RPM.
* emacspeak-rpm-spec::Speech enable rpm spec editor.
* emacspeak-rst::Speech-enable RST.
* emacspeak-ruby::Speech enable Ruby Mode.
* emacspeak-ses::Speech-enable ses spread-sheet.
* emacspeak-setup::Setup Emacspeak environment --loaded to start Emacspeak.
* emacspeak-sgml-mode::Speech enable SGML mode.
* emacspeak-sh-script::Speech enable  sh-script mode.
* emacspeak-shx::Speech-enable SHX.
* emacspeak-sigbegone::Speech-enable sigbegone.
* emacspeak-slime::Speech-enable SLIME, A Lisp IDE.
* emacspeak-smart-window::Speech-enable SMART-WINDOW.
* emacspeak-solitaire::Speech enable Solitaire game.
* emacspeak-sounds::Defines Emacspeak auditory icons.
* emacspeak-speak::Implements Emacspeak's core speech services.
* emacspeak-speedbar::Speech enable speedbar -- Tool for context-sensitive navigation.
* emacspeak-sql::Speech enable sql-mode.
* emacspeak-sudoku::Play SuDoku.
* emacspeak-supercite::Speech enable supercite.
* emacspeak-table::Implements data model for table browsing.
* emacspeak-table-ui::Emacspeak's current notion of an ideal table UI.
* emacspeak-tabulate::Interpret tabulated information as a table.
* emacspeak-tapestry::Speak information about current layout of windows.
* emacspeak-tar::Speech enable Tar Mode -- Manipulate tar archives from Emacs.
* emacspeak-tcl::Speech enable TCL development environment.
* emacspeak-tdtd::Speech enable  DTD authoring.
* emacspeak-tempo::Speech enable tempo -- template library used for Java and HTML authoring.
* emacspeak-tetris::Speech enable game of Tetris.
* emacspeak-texinfo::Speech enable texinfo mode.
* emacspeak-threes::Speech-enable THREES.
* emacspeak-tide::Speech-enable TIDE.
* emacspeak-todo-mode::speech-enable todo-mode.
* emacspeak-twittering::Speech-enable Twittering-mode.
* emacspeak-url-template::Create library of URI templates.
* emacspeak-vdiff::Speech-enable VDIFF.
* emacspeak-view::Speech enable View mode -- Efficient browsing of read-only content.
* emacspeak-vm::Speech enable VMMail.
* emacspeak-w3::Speech enable W3 WWW browser -- includes ACSS Support.
* emacspeak-w3m::speech-enables w3m-el.
* emacspeak-wdired::Speech-enable wdired.
* emacspeak-we::Transform Web Pages Using XSLT.
* emacspeak-websearch::search utilities.
* emacspeak-webspace::Webspaces In Emacspeak.
* emacspeak-webutils::Common Web Utilities For Emacspeak.
* emacspeak-widget::Speech enable Emacs' native GUI widget library.
* emacspeak-windmove::speech-enable windmove.
* emacspeak-winring::Speech enable WinRing -- Manage multiple Emacs window configurations.
* emacspeak-wizards::
* emacspeak-woman::Speech-enable WOMAN.
* emacspeak-xkcd::Speech-enable XKCD.
* emacspeak-xml-shell::Implements a simple XML browser.
* emacspeak-xref::Speech-enable XREF.
* emacspeak-xslt::Implements Emacspeak  xslt transform engine.
* emacspeak-yasnippet::Speech-enable YASNIPPET.
* espeak-voices::Define various device independent voices in terms of Espeak tags.
* g::Google Client.
* g-app::Google Client APP methods.
* g-auth::Google Authentication Module.
* g-utils::Google Client Utilities.
* gm-nnir::
* gmaps::Google Maps.
* gweb::Google Search.
* ladspa::Ladspa Tools For Emacs.
* mac-voices::Define various device independent voices in terms of Mac tags.
* outloud-voices::Define various device independent voices in terms of OutLoud tags.
* plain-voices::Define various device independent voices in terms of Plain codes.
* soundscape::Soundscapes for The Emacspeak Desktop.
* sox::An Audio Work-Bench.
* sox-gen::Binaural Beats And More Using SoX.
* stack-f::
* tetris::implementation of Tetris for Emacs.
* toy-braille::
* tts::Engine-specific TTS Environment.
* tts-cmds::Engine-specific TTS Commands.
* voice-setup::Setup voices for voice-lock.
* xbacklight::Control Display Brightness From Emacs.
* URL Templates ::
@end menu

@node acss-structure
@section acss-structure

The CSS Speech Style Sheet specification defines a number of
abstract device independent voice properties.
A setting conforming to the CSS speech specification can be
represented in elisp as a structure.

We will refer to this structure as a "speech style".
This structure needs to be mapped to device dependent codes to
produce the desired effect.
This module forms a bridge between User Agents e.g. Emacs-w3 that
wish to implement a speech style sheet
and Emacspeak's dectalk-voices module.
Emacspeak produces voice change effects by examining the value of
text-property 'personality.

Think of a buffer of formatted text along with the text-property
'personality appropriately set as a "aural display list".
Applications like W3 that produce such formatted buffers  call function
acss-personality-from-speech-style  with a  "speech-style"
--a structure as defined in this module and get back a symbol that
they then assign to the value of property 'personality.
Emacspeak's rendering engine then does the needful at the time
speech is produced.
Function acss-personality-from-speech-style does the following:
Takes as input a "speech style"
(1)  Computes a symbol that will be used henceforth to refer to this
specific speech style.
(2) Examines emacspeak's internal voice table to see if this
speech style has a voice already defined.
If so it returns immediately.
Otherwise, it does the additional work of defining a dectalk-voice for
future use.
See module dectalk-voices.el to see how voices are defined.

@node amixer
@section amixer

Provide an emacs front-end to amixer.
amixer is part of ALSA.

@subsection amixer Commands

@subsubsection amixer
@deffn {Command} amixer  (&optional refresh)
@findex amixer

@format
Interactively manipulate ALSA settings.
Interactive prefix arg refreshes cache.

(fn &optional REFRESH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection amixer-equalize
@deffn {Command} amixer-equalize   
@findex amixer-equalize

@format
Set equalizer. Only affects device ‘equal’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection amixer-reset-equalizer
@deffn {Command} amixer-reset-equalizer   
@findex amixer-reset-equalizer

@format
Reset equalizer to default values -- 66% for all 10 bands.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection amixer-store
@deffn {Command} amixer-store   
@findex amixer-store

@format
Persist current amixer settings.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection amixer Options

@defvar {User Option} amixer-device
ALSA Control Device.

@end defvar

@node cd-tool
@section cd-tool

Provide an emacs front-end to cdtool.
cdtool can be obtained as an rpm
check using rpmfind
or from its home site at
  sunsite.unc.edu /pub/Linux/apps/sound/cdrom/cli
This module also provides the ability to play or save
clips from a CD if you have cdda2wav installed.
cdda2wav is a cd to wav converter.

@subsection cd-tool Commands

@subsubsection cd-tool
@deffn {Command} cd-tool   
@table @kbd
@item C-e DEL
@kindex C-e DEL
@item <fn> DEL
@kindex <fn> DEL
@end table

@findex cd-tool

@format
Front-end to CDTool.
Bind this function to a convenient key-
Emacspeak users automatically have
this bound to <DEL> in the emacspeak keymap.

Key     Action
---     ------

+       Next Track
-       Previous Track
SPC     Pause or Resume
e       Eject
=       Shuffle
i       CD Info
p       Play
s       Stop
t       track
c       clip
cap C   Save clip to disk

@end format
@end deffn

@subsection cd-tool Options

@defvar {User Option} cd-tool-start-command
*Name of cdstart command; most likely either "cdstart" or "cdplay".

@end defvar

@node dectalk-voices
@section dectalk-voices

This module defines the various voices used in voice-lock mode.
This module is Dectalk specific.

@subsection dectalk-voices Commands

@subsubsection dectalk
@deffn {Command} dectalk   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d C-d
@kindex C-e d C-d
@item <fn> d C-d
@kindex <fn> d C-d
@end table

@findex dectalk

@format
Select Dectalk TTS server.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-exp
@deffn {Command} dtk-exp   
@findex dtk-exp

@format
Select Dectalk TTS server.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection dectalk-voices Options

@defvar {User Option} dectalk-default-speech-rate
*Default speech rate at which TTS is started. 

@end defvar

@node dom-addons
@section dom-addons

Useful additional functions for dom.el

@node dtk-interp
@section dtk-interp

All requests to the speech server are factored out into
this module.
These calls are declared here as defun so they are
inlined by the byte compiler.
This  keeps the code efficient,
but gives us the flexibility to call out to different
speech servers.

@node dtk-speak
@section dtk-speak

Defines the TTS interface.

@subsection dtk-speak Commands

@subsubsection dtk-add-cleanup-pattern
@deffn {Command} dtk-add-cleanup-pattern  (&optional delete)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d a
@kindex C-e d a
@item <fn> d a
@kindex <fn> d a
@end table

@findex dtk-add-cleanup-pattern

@format
Add this pattern to the list of repeating patterns that
are cleaned up.  Optional interactive prefix arg deletes
this pattern if previously added.  Cleaning up repeated
patterns results in emacspeak speaking the pattern followed
by a repeat count instead of speaking all the characters
making up the pattern.  Thus, by adding the repeating
pattern ‘.’ (this is already added by default) emacspeak
will say ‘‘aw fifteen dot’’ when speaking the string
‘‘...............’’ instead of ‘‘period period period period
’’

(fn &optional DELETE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-cloud
@deffn {Command} dtk-cloud   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d C-c
@kindex C-e d C-c
@item <fn> d C-c
@kindex <fn> d C-c
@end table

@findex dtk-cloud

@format
Select preferred Cloud TTS server.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-local-server
@deffn {Command} dtk-local-server  (program &optional prompt-port)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d L
@kindex C-e d L
@item <fn> d L
@kindex <fn> d L
@end table

@findex dtk-local-server

@format
Select and start an local speech server interactively. Local server
lets Emacspeak on a remote host connect back via SSH port forwarding
for instance. Argument PROGRAM specifies the speech server
program. Port defaults to dtk-local-server-port

(fn PROGRAM &optional PROMPT-PORT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-notify-initialize
@deffn {Command} dtk-notify-initialize   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d C-n
@kindex C-e d C-n
@item <fn> d C-n
@kindex <fn> d C-n
@end table

@findex dtk-notify-initialize

@format
Initialize notification TTS stream.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-notify-shutdown
@deffn {Command} dtk-notify-shutdown   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d C-s
@kindex C-e d C-s
@item <fn> d C-s
@kindex <fn> d C-s
@end table

@findex dtk-notify-shutdown

@format
Shutdown notification TTS stream.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-notify-stop
@deffn {Command} dtk-notify-stop   
@table @kbd
@item C-e .
@kindex C-e .
@item <fn> .
@kindex <fn> .
@end table

@findex dtk-notify-stop

@format
Stop  speech on notification stream.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-reset-state
@deffn {Command} dtk-reset-state   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d R
@kindex C-e d R
@item <fn> d R
@kindex <fn> d R
@end table

@findex dtk-reset-state

@format
Restore sanity to the Dectalk.
Typically used after the Dectalk has been power   cycled.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-select-server
@deffn {Command} dtk-select-server  (program &optional device)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d d
@kindex C-e d d
@item <fn> d d
@kindex <fn> d d
@end table

@findex dtk-select-server

@format
Select a speech server interactively.
When called interactively, restarts speech server.
Argument PROGRAM specifies the speech server program.
 Optional arg device sets up environment variable
ALSA_DEFAULT to specified device before starting the server.

(fn PROGRAM &optional DEVICE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-character-scale
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-character-scale  (factor &optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d f
@kindex C-e d f
@item <fn> d f
@kindex <fn> d f
@end table

@findex dtk-set-character-scale

@format
Set scale FACTOR for   speech rate.
Speech rate is scaled by this factor
when speaking characters.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.

(fn FACTOR &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-chunk-separator-syntax
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-chunk-separator-syntax  (s)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d RET
@kindex C-e d RET
@item <fn> d RET
@kindex <fn> d RET
@end table

@findex dtk-set-chunk-separator-syntax

@format
Interactively set how text is split in chunks.
See the Emacs documentation on syntax tables for details on how characters are
classified into various syntactic classes.
Argument S specifies the syntax class.

(fn S)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-language
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-language  (lang)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d S
@kindex C-e d S
@item <fn> d S
@kindex <fn> d S
@end table

@findex dtk-set-language

@format
Set language according to the argument lang.

(fn LANG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-next-language
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-next-language   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d N
@kindex C-e d N
@item <fn> d N
@kindex <fn> d N
@end table

@findex dtk-set-next-language

@format
Switch to the next available language
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d 9
@kindex C-e d 9
@item C-e d 8
@kindex C-e d 8
@item C-e d 7
@kindex C-e d 7
@item C-e d 6
@kindex C-e d 6
@item C-e d 5
@kindex C-e d 5
@item C-e d 4
@kindex C-e d 4
@item C-e d 3
@kindex C-e d 3
@item C-e d 2
@kindex C-e d 2
@item C-e d 1
@kindex C-e d 1
@item C-e d 0
@kindex C-e d 0
@item <fn> d 9
@kindex <fn> d 9
@item <fn> d 8
@kindex <fn> d 8
@item <fn> d 7
@kindex <fn> d 7
@item <fn> d 6
@kindex <fn> d 6
@item <fn> d 5
@kindex <fn> d 5
@item <fn> d 4
@kindex <fn> d 4
@item <fn> d 3
@kindex <fn> d 3
@item <fn> d 2
@kindex <fn> d 2
@item <fn> d 1
@kindex <fn> d 1
@item <fn> d 0
@kindex <fn> d 0
@end table

@findex dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate

@format
Set speech rate to one of nine predefined levels.
Interactive PREFIX arg says to set the rate globally.
Formula used is:
rate = dtk-speech-rate-base + dtk-speech-rate-step * level.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-preferred-language
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-preferred-language  (alias lang)
@findex dtk-set-preferred-language

@format
Set the alias of the preferred language:
For example if alias="en" lang="en_GB",
then the following call:
 dtk-set-language("en")
will set "en_GB".

(fn ALIAS LANG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-previous-language
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-previous-language   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d P
@kindex C-e d P
@item <fn> d P
@kindex <fn> d P
@end table

@findex dtk-set-previous-language

@format
Switch to the previous available language
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-punctuations
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-punctuations  (mode &optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d p
@kindex C-e d p
@item <fn> d p
@kindex <fn> d p
@end table

@findex dtk-set-punctuations

@format
Set punctuation mode to MODE.
Possible values are ‘some’, ‘all’, or ‘none’.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.

(fn MODE &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-punctuations-to-all
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-punctuations-to-all  (&optional prefix)
@findex dtk-set-punctuations-to-all

@format
Set punctuation  mode to all.
Interactive PREFIX arg sets punctuation mode globally.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-punctuations-to-some
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-punctuations-to-some  (&optional prefix)
@findex dtk-set-punctuations-to-some

@format
Set punctuation  mode to some.
Interactive PREFIX arg sets punctuation mode globally.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-set-rate
@deffn {Command} dtk-set-rate  (rate &optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d r
@kindex C-e d r
@item <fn> d r
@kindex <fn> d r
@end table

@findex dtk-set-rate

@format
Set speaking RATE for the tts.
Interactive PREFIX arg means set   the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.

(fn RATE &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-stop
@deffn {Command} dtk-stop   
@table @kbd
@item C-e s
@kindex C-e s
@item C-e <fn>
@kindex C-e <fn>
@item <fn> s
@kindex <fn> s
@item <fn> <fn>
@kindex <fn> <fn>
@end table

@findex dtk-stop

@format
Stop speech now.
Interactive call   silences notification stream as well.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-allcaps-beep
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-allcaps-beep  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d C
@kindex C-e d C
@item <fn> d C
@kindex <fn> d C
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-allcaps-beep

@format
Toggle allcaps-beep.
when set, allcaps words  are  indicated by a
short beep.  Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
Note that allcaps-beep is a very useful thing when programming.
However it is irritating to have it on when reading documents.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-capitalization
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-capitalization  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d c
@kindex C-e d c
@item <fn> d c
@kindex <fn> d c
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-capitalization

@format
Toggle capitalization.
when set, capitalization is indicated by a
short beep.  Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-punctuation-mode
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-punctuation-mode  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d ,
@kindex C-e d ,
@item <fn> d ,
@kindex <fn> d ,
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-punctuation-mode

@format
Toggle punctuation mode between "some" and "all".
Interactive PREFIX arg makes the new setting global.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-quiet
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-quiet  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d q
@kindex C-e d q
@item <fn> d q
@kindex <fn> d q
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-quiet

@format
Toggles state of  dtk-quiet.
Turning on this switch silences speech.
Optional interactive prefix arg causes this setting to become global.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d n
@kindex C-e d n
@item <fn> d n
@kindex <fn> d n
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars

@format
Toggle speak-nonprinting-chars.
Switches behavior of how characters with the high bit set are handled.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default
value, and then set the current local value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-split-caps
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-split-caps  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d s
@kindex C-e d s
@item <fn> d s
@kindex <fn> d s
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-split-caps

@format
Toggle split caps mode.
Split caps mode is useful when reading
Hungarian notation in program source code.  Interactive PREFIX arg
means toggle the global default value, and then set the current local
value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-splitting-on-white-space
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-splitting-on-white-space   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d SPC
@kindex C-e d SPC
@item <fn> d SPC
@kindex <fn> d SPC
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-splitting-on-white-space

@format
Toggle splitting of speech on white space.
This affects the internal state of emacspeak that decides if we split
text purely by clause boundaries, or also include
whitespace.  By default, emacspeak sends a clause at a time
to the speech device.  This produces fluent speech for
normal use.  However in modes such as ‘shell-mode’ and some
programming language modes, clause markers appear
infrequently, and this can result in large amounts of text
being sent to the speech device at once, making the system
unresponsive when asked to stop talking.  Splitting on white
space makes emacspeak’s stop command responsive.  However,
when splitting on white space, the speech sounds choppy
since the synthesizer is getting a word at a time.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-toggle-strip-octals
@deffn {Command} dtk-toggle-strip-octals  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d o
@kindex C-e d o
@item <fn> d o
@kindex <fn> d o
@end table

@findex dtk-toggle-strip-octals

@format
Toggle stripping of octals.
Interactive prefix arg means
 toggle the global default value, and then set the current local
value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-cycle-device
@deffn {Command} tts-cycle-device  (&optional restart)
@findex tts-cycle-device

@format
Cycle through available ALSA devices.
Optional interactive prefix arg restarts current TTS server.

(fn &optional RESTART)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-restart
@deffn {Command} tts-restart   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-s
@kindex C-e C-s
@item <fn> C-s
@kindex <fn> C-s
@end table

@findex tts-restart

@format
Use this to nuke the currently running TTS server and restart it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-speak-version
@deffn {Command} tts-speak-version   
@findex tts-speak-version

@format
Speak version.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection dtk-speak Options

@defvar {User Option} dtk-cleanup-patterns
List of repeating patterns to clean up.
You can use  command  ‘dtk-add-cleanup-pattern’
 bound to C-e d a  to add more patterns.
Specify patterns that people use to decorate their ASCII files, and cause
untold pain to the speech synthesizer.

If more than 3 consecutive occurrences
of a specified pattern is found, the TTS engine replaces it
with a repeat count. 

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-cloud-server
Set this to your preferred cloud TTS server.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-local-engine
Engine we use  for our local TTS  server.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-speak-nonprinting-chars
*Option that specifies handling of non-printing chars.
Non nil value means non printing characters  should be
spoken as their octal value.
Set this to t to avoid a dectalk bug that makes the speech box die if
it seems some accented characters in certain contexts.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-speech-rate-base
*Value of lowest tolerable speech rate.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-speech-rate-step
*Value of speech rate increment.
This determines step size used when setting speech rate via command
‘dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate’.  Formula used is
dtk-speech-rate-base  +  dtk-speech-rate-step*level.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-speech-server-program
Local speech server script.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-startup-hook
List of hooks to be run after starting up the speech server.
Set things like speech rate, punctuation mode etc in this
hook.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-use-tones
Allow tones to be turned off.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} tts-device-list
List of ALSA sound devices  we can use.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} tts-strip-octals
Set to T to strip all octal chars before speaking.
Particularly useful for web browsing.

@end defvar

@node dtk-unicode
@section dtk-unicode

This  Provides Unicode support to the speech layer.

@subsection dtk-unicode Commands

@subsubsection dtk-unicode-customize-char
@deffn {Command} dtk-unicode-customize-char  (char replacement)
@findex dtk-unicode-customize-char

@format
Add a custom replacement string for CHAR.

When called interactively, CHAR defaults to the character after point.

(fn CHAR REPLACEMENT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection dtk-unicode-uncustomize-char
@deffn {Command} dtk-unicode-uncustomize-char  (char)
@findex dtk-unicode-uncustomize-char

@format
Delete custom replacement for CHAR.

When called interactively, CHAR defaults to the character after point.

(fn CHAR)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection dtk-unicode Options

@defvar {User Option} dtk-unicode-character-replacement-alist
Explicit replacements for some characters.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-unicode-name-transformation-rules-alist
Alist of character name transformation rules.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-unicode-process-utf8
Turn this off when working with TTS  engines that handle UTF8
themselves, e.g., when using an Asian language.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-unicode-untouched-charsets
*Characters of these charsets are completely ignored by dtk-unicode-replace-chars.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak
@section emacspeak

Emacspeak extends Emacs to be a fully functional audio desktop.
This is the main emacspeak module.
It actually does very little:
It sets up Emacs to load package-specific
Emacspeak modules as each package is loaded.
It implements function emacspeak which loads the rest of the system.

@subsection emacspeak Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak
@deffn {Command} emacspeak   
@findex emacspeak

@format
Start the Emacspeak Audio Desktop.
Use Emacs as you normally would,
emacspeak will provide you spoken feedback as you work.  Emacspeak also
provides commands for having parts of the current buffer, the
mode-line etc to be spoken.

If you are hearing this description as a result of pressing
C-h C-e you may want to press C-e s to
stop speech, and then use the arrow keys to move around in the Help
buffer to read the rest of this description, which includes a summary
of all emacspeak keybindings.

All emacspeak commands use C-e as a prefix
key.  You can also set the state of the TTS engine by using
C-e d as a prefix.  Here is a summary of all
emacspeak commands along with their bindings.  You need to precede the
keystrokes listed below with C-e.

Emacspeak also provides a fluent speech extension to the Emacs
terminal emulator (eterm).  Note: You need to use the term package that
comes with emacs-19.29 and later.

key             binding
---             -------

C-@@		emacspeak-speak-current-mark
C-a		emacspeak-toggle-auditory-icons
C-b		emacspeak-bookshare
C-c		emacspeak-clipboard-copy
C-d		emacspeak-toggle-show-point
C-e		end-of-line
TAB		emacspeak-open-info
C-j		emacspeak-hide-speak-block-sans-prefix
C-l		emacspeak-speak-line-number
RET		emacspeak-speak-continuously
C-n		emacspeak-speak-next-window
C-o		emacspeak-ocr
C-p		emacspeak-speak-previous-window
C-q		emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak
C-s		tts-restart
C-t		emacspeak-table-submap-command
C-u		emacspeak-feeds-browse
C-v		view-mode
C-w		emacspeak-speak-window-information
C-x		emacspeak-personal-ctlx-keymap
C-y		emacspeak-clipboard-paste
ESC		Prefix Command
SPC		emacspeak-speak-header-line
!		emacspeak-speak-run-shell-command
"		emacspeak-speak-sexp-interactively
#		emacspeak-gridtext
%		emacspeak-speak-current-percentage
&		emacspeak-wizards-shell-command-on-current-file
'		emacspeak-pianobar
(		emacspeak-audio-setup
)		emacspeak-sounds-select-theme
,		emacspeak-speak-browse-buffer
.		dtk-notify-stop
/		emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display
0 .. 9		emacspeak-speak-predefined-window
:		emacspeak-m-player-shuffle
;		emacspeak-multimedia
<		emacspeak-speak-previous-field
=		emacspeak-speak-current-column
>		emacspeak-speak-next-field
?		emacspeak-websearch-dispatch
@@		emacspeak-speak-message-at-time
A		emacspeak-appt-repeat-announcement
B		emacspeak-speak-buffer-interactively
C		emacspeak-customize
I		emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces
L		emacspeak-speak-line-interactively
M		emacspeak-speak-minor-mode-line
N		emacspeak-view-emacspeak-news
P		emacspeak-speak-paragraph-interactively
R		emacspeak-speak-rectangle
T		emacspeak-view-emacspeak-tips
V		emacspeak-speak-version
W		emacspeak-tapestry-select-window-by-name
[		emacspeak-speak-page
\		emacspeak-toggle-speak-line-invert-filter
]		emacspeak-speak-page-interactively
^		emacspeak-filtertext
a		emacspeak-speak-message-again
b		emacspeak-speak-buffer
c		emacspeak-speak-char
d		emacspeak-dtk-submap-command
e		end-of-line
f		emacspeak-speak-buffer-filename
g		emacspeak-epub
h		emacspeak-speak-help
i		emacspeak-tabulate-region
j		emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block
k		emacspeak-speak-current-kill
l		emacspeak-speak-line
m		emacspeak-speak-mode-line
n		emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer
o		emacspeak-toggle-comint-output-monitor
p		emacspeak-speak-paragraph
q		emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages
r		emacspeak-speak-region
s		dtk-stop
t		emacspeak-speak-time
u		emacspeak-url-template-fetch
v		view-register
w		emacspeak-speak-word
x		emacspeak-personal-keymap
@{		emacspeak-speak-paragraph
|		emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter
DEL		cd-tool
C-SPC		emacspeak-speak-current-mark
<(deletechar>	emacspeak-ssh-tts-restart
<C-<left>	emacspeak-select-this-buffer-previous-display
<C-<right>	emacspeak-select-this-buffer-next-display
<fn>	dtk-stop
<delete>	emacspeak-ssh-tts-restart
<down>		emacspeak-read-next-line
<f1>		emacspeak-learn-emacs-mode
<f11>		emacspeak-wizards-shell-toggle
<insert>	emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart
<left>		emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-previous-display
<right>		emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-next-display
<up>		emacspeak-read-previous-line

x .		emacspeak-wizards-shell-directory-reset
x 0 .. x 9	emacspeak-wizards-shell-by-key
x =		emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-line-in-region
x Q		emacspeak-wizards-yql-lookup
x b		battery
x e		emacspeak-we-xsl-map
x h		emacspeak-wizards-how-many-matches
x i		ibuffer
x j		emacspeak-jabber-popup-roster
x m		mspools-show
x o		emacspeak-wizards-occur-header-lines
x p		paradox-list-packages
x q		emacspeak-wizards-yql-quotes
x r		jabber-activity-switch-to
x s		emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart
x t		emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory
x u		emacspeak-wizards-units
x v		emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer
x |		emacspeak-wizards-squeeze-blanks
x DEL		desktop-clear

# a		emacspeak-gridtext-apply
# l		emacspeak-gridtext-load
# s		emacspeak-gridtext-save

C-M-@@		emacspeak-speak-spaces-at-point
C-M-b		emacspeak-submit-bug
C-M-k		kill-emacs
M-%		emacspeak-goto-percent
M-;		emacspeak-webutils-play-media-at-point
M-P		emacspeak-show-property-at-point
M-a		emacspeak-set-auditory-icon-player
M-b		emacspeak-speak-other-buffer
M-c		emacspeak-copy-current-file
M-d		emacspeak-pronounce-dispatch
M-f		emacspeak-frame-label-or-switch-to-labelled-frame
M-h		emacspeak-speak-hostname
M-i		emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region
M-l		emacspeak-link-current-file
M-m		emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert
M-q		voice-setup-toggle-silence-personality
M-r		emacspeak-remote-connect-to-server
M-s		emacspeak-symlink-current-file
M-t		emacspeak-tapestry-describe-tapestry
M-u		emacspeak-feeds-add-feed
M-v		emacspeak-show-personality-at-point
M-w		emacspeak-speak-which-function
C-M-SPC		emacspeak-speak-spaces-at-point

C-t C-b		emacspeak-table-previous-column
C-t C-f		emacspeak-table-next-column
C-t TAB		emacspeak-table-next-column
C-t C-n		emacspeak-table-next-row
C-t C-p		emacspeak-table-previous-row
C-t ESC		Prefix Command
C-t SPC		emacspeak-table-speak-current-element
C-t #		emacspeak-table-sort-on-current-column
C-t ,		emacspeak-table-find-csv-file
C-t .		emacspeak-table-speak-coordinates
C-t <		emacspeak-table-goto-left
C-t =		emacspeak-table-speak-dimensions
C-t >		emacspeak-table-goto-right
C-t A		emacspeak-table-goto-left
C-t B		emacspeak-table-goto-bottom
C-t C		emacspeak-table-search-column
C-t E		emacspeak-table-goto-right
C-t Q		emacspeak-kill-buffer-quietly
C-t R		emacspeak-table-search-row
C-t T		emacspeak-table-goto-top
C-t a		emacspeak-table-select-automatic-speaking-method
C-t b		emacspeak-table-speak-both-headers-and-element
C-t c		emacspeak-table-speak-column-header-and-element
C-t f		emacspeak-table-speak-row-filtered
C-t g		emacspeak-table-speak-column-filtered
C-t h		emacspeak-table-search-headers
C-t j		emacspeak-table-goto
C-t k		emacspeak-table-copy-to-clipboard
C-t n		emacspeak-table-next-row
C-t p		emacspeak-table-previous-row
C-t q		quit-window
C-t r		emacspeak-table-speak-row-header-and-element
C-t s		emacspeak-table-search
C-t v		emacspeak-table-view-csv-buffer
C-t w		emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-kill-ring
C-t x		emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-register
C-t <S-tab>	emacspeak-table-previous-column
C-t <down>	emacspeak-table-next-row
C-t <left>	emacspeak-table-previous-column
C-t <right>	emacspeak-table-next-column
C-t <up>	emacspeak-table-previous-row

d C-c		dtk-cloud
d C-d		dectalk
d C-e		espeak
d RET		dtk-set-chunk-separator-syntax
d C-n		dtk-notify-initialize
d C-o		outloud
d C-s		dtk-notify-shutdown
d SPC		dtk-toggle-splitting-on-white-space
d ,		dtk-toggle-punctuation-mode
d 0 .. d 9	dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate
d C		dtk-toggle-allcaps-beep
d L		dtk-local-server
d N		dtk-set-next-language
d P		dtk-set-previous-language
d R		dtk-reset-state
d S		dtk-set-language
d V		global-voice-lock-mode
d a		dtk-add-cleanup-pattern
d c		dtk-toggle-capitalization
d d		dtk-select-server
d f		dtk-set-character-scale
d i		emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation
d k		emacspeak-toggle-character-echo
d l		emacspeak-toggle-line-echo
d m		emacspeak-speak-set-mode-punctuations
d n		dtk-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars
d o		dtk-toggle-strip-octals
d p		dtk-set-punctuations
d q		dtk-toggle-quiet
d r		dtk-set-rate
d s		dtk-toggle-split-caps
d v		voice-lock-toggle
d w		emacspeak-toggle-word-echo
d z		emacspeak-zap-tts

x e C-c		emacspeak-we-junk-by-class-list
x e C-f		emacspeak-we-count-matches
x e C-p		emacspeak-we-xpath-junk-and-follow
x e C-t		emacspeak-we-count-tables
x e C-x		emacspeak-we-count-nested-tables
x e C		emacspeak-we-extract-by-class-list
x e D		emacspeak-we-junk-by-class-list
x e I		emacspeak-we-extract-by-id-list
x e M		emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-match-list
x e P		emacspeak-we-follow-and-extract-main
x e S		emacspeak-we-style-filter
x e T		emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-position-list
x e X		emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table-list
x e a		emacspeak-we-xslt-apply
x e b		emacspeak-we-follow-and-filter-by-id
x e c		emacspeak-we-extract-by-class
x e d		emacspeak-we-junk-by-class
x e e		emacspeak-we-url-expand-and-execute
x e f		emacspeak-we-xslt-filter
x e i		emacspeak-we-extract-by-id
x e j		emacspeak-we-xslt-junk
x e k		emacspeak-we-toggle-xsl-keep-result
x e m		emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-match
x e o		emacspeak-we-xsl-toggle
x e p		emacspeak-we-xpath-filter-and-follow
x e r		emacspeak-we-extract-by-role
x e s		emacspeak-we-xslt-select
x e t		emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-position
x e u		emacspeak-we-extract-matching-urls
x e v		emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow-link
x e w		emacspeak-we-extract-by-property
x e x		emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table
x e y		emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow

C-t M-<		emacspeak-table-goto-top
C-t M->		emacspeak-table-goto-bottom
C-t M-l		emacspeak-table-ui-filter-load
C-t M-s		emacspeak-table-ui-filter-save

Emacspeak provides a set of additional keymaps to give easy access to
its extensive facilities.

Press C-; to access keybindings in emacspeak-hyper-keymap:
key             binding
---             -------

TAB		hippie-expand
C-r		flx-isearch-backward
C-s		flx-isearch-forward
SPC		emacspeak-webspace
'		emacspeak-m-player-using-hrtf
:		emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-m-player-mode
;		emacspeak-m-player-using-openal
B		eww-list-bookmarks
C		apu-chars
F		rg-dwim
N		emacspeak-npr-listing
a		emacspeak-wizards-term
b		eww-list-buffers
c		browse-url-chrome
d		magit-dispatch-popup
e		gmaps
f		rg
g		gnus
h		emacspeak-org-capture-link
i		yas-insert-snippet
j		emacspeak-wizards-shell-toggle
k		emacspeak-webspace-knowledge-search
l		emacspeak-librivox
m		vm
n		emacspeak-npr-play-program
o		helm-mini
p		emacspeak-wizards-pdf-open
q		emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-to-server
r		org-capture
s		emacspeak-wizards-shell
t		twit
u		browse-url
v		emacspeak-evil-toggle-evil
w		emacspeak-web-prefix

w R		emacspeak-xslt-view-region
w b		browse-url-of-buffer
w m		emacspeak-wizards-eww-buffer-list
w r		browse-url-of-region

SPC SPC		emacspeak-webspace-headlines-browse
SPC h		emacspeak-webspace-headlines

.

Press C-’ or C-.  to access keybindings in emacspeak-super-keymap:
key             binding
---             -------

SPC		emacspeak-wizards-scratch
.		auto-correct-update
R		emacspeak-webspace-feed-reader
S		soundscape-stop
b		emacspeak-bbc
e		elfeed
f		flyspell-mode
j		ido-imenu-anywhere
l		emacspeak-m-player-locate-media
m		emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-this-mode
o		ciel-co
p		proced
r		soundscape-restart
s		soundscape
t		soundscape-toggle
u		soundscape-update-mood
v		emacspeak-muggles-view/body

.

Press C-, to access keybindings in emacspeak-alt-keymap:
key             binding
---             -------

,		emacspeak-eldoc-speak-doc
a		emacspeak-feeds-atom-display
b		sox-binaural
c		emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-this-mode
e		eww
f		emacspeak-feeds-find-feeds
i		emacspeak-wizards-iheart
l		eww-open-file
m		magit-status
n		emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-next-buffer
o		emacspeak-feeds-opml-display
p		emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-previous-buffer
r		emacspeak-feeds-rss-display
s		emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-search
t		emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-browse
u		emacspeak-m-player-url
v		visual-line-mode

.

See the online documentation C-e TAB for individual
commands and options for details.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-describe-emacspeak
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-describe-emacspeak   
@table @kbd
@item C-h C-e
@kindex C-h C-e
@item <f1> C-e
@kindex <f1> C-e
@item <help> C-e
@kindex <help> C-e
@end table

@findex emacspeak-describe-emacspeak

@format
Give a brief overview of emacspeak.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-info
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-info   
@findex emacspeak-info

@format
Open Emacspeak Info Manual.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-submit-bug
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-submit-bug   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-M-b
@kindex C-e C-M-b
@item <fn> C-M-b
@kindex <fn> C-M-b
@end table

@findex emacspeak-submit-bug

@format
Function to submit a bug to the programs maintainer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-Buffer-menu-buffer-voice
Personality used for Buffer-menu-buffer
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-Info-quoted-voice
Personality used for Info-quoted
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-Man-overstrike-voice
Personality used for Man-overstrike
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-Man-reverse-voice
Personality used for Man-reverse
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-Man-underline-voice
Personality used for Man-underline
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bold-italic-voice
Personality used for bold-italic
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bold-voice
Personality used for bold
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-button-voice
Personality used for button
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-c-annotation-personality
Personality used for c-annotation-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-calendar-today-voice
Personality used for calendar-today
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-comint-highlight-input-voice
Personality used for comint-highlight-input
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-comint-highlight-prompt-voice
Personality used for comint-highlight-prompt
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-completions-annotations-voice
Personality used for completions-annotations
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-completions-common-part-voice
Personality used for completions-common-part
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-completions-first-difference-voice
Personality used for completions-first-difference
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-mouse-voice
Personality used for custom-button-mouse
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-pressed-unraised-voice
Personality used for custom-button-pressed-unraised
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-pressed-voice
Personality used for custom-button-pressed
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-unraised-voice
Personality used for custom-button-unraised
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-voice
Personality used for custom-button
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-changed-voice
Personality used for custom-changed
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-comment-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-comment-tag
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-comment-voice
Personality used for custom-comment
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-documentation-voice
Personality used for custom-documentation
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-face-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-face-tag
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-group-tag-1-voice
Personality used for custom-group-tag-1
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-group-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-group-tag
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-invalid-voice
Personality used for custom-invalid
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-link-voice
Personality used for custom-link
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-modified-voice
Personality used for custom-modified
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-rogue-voice
Personality used for custom-rogue
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-saved-voice
Personality used for custom-saved
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-set-voice
Personality used for custom-set
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-state-voice
Personality used for custom-state
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-variable-button-voice
Personality used for custom-variable-button
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-variable-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-variable-tag
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diary-voice
Personality used for diary
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-added-voice
Personality used for diff-added
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-changed-voice
Personality used for diff-changed
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-context-voice
Personality used for diff-context
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-file-header-voice
Personality used for diff-file-header
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-function-voice
Personality used for diff-function
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-header-voice
Personality used for diff-header
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-hunk-header-voice
Personality used for diff-hunk-header
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-index-voice
Personality used for diff-index
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-indicator-added-voice
Personality used for diff-indicator-added
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-indicator-changed-voice
Personality used for diff-indicator-changed
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-indicator-removed-voice
Personality used for diff-indicator-removed
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-nonexistent-voice
Personality used for diff-nonexistent
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-refine-added-voice
Personality used for diff-refine-added
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-refine-changed-voice
Personality used for diff-refine-changed
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-refine-removed-voice
Personality used for diff-refine-removed
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diff-removed-voice
Personality used for diff-removed
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-directory-voice
Personality used for dired-directory
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-flagged-voice
Personality used for dired-flagged
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-header-voice
Personality used for dired-header
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-ignored-voice
Personality used for dired-ignored
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-mark-voice
Personality used for dired-mark
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-marked-voice
Personality used for dired-marked
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-perm-write-voice
Personality used for dired-perm-write
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-symlink-voice
Personality used for dired-symlink
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-warning-voice
Personality used for dired-warning
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-current-diff-A-voice
Personality used for ediff-current-diff-A
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-current-diff-Ancestor-voice
Personality used for ediff-current-diff-Ancestor
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-current-diff-B-voice
Personality used for ediff-current-diff-B
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-current-diff-C-voice
Personality used for ediff-current-diff-C
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-even-diff-A-voice
Personality used for ediff-even-diff-A
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-even-diff-Ancestor-voice
Personality used for ediff-even-diff-Ancestor
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-even-diff-B-voice
Personality used for ediff-even-diff-B
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-even-diff-C-voice
Personality used for ediff-even-diff-C
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-fine-diff-A-voice
Personality used for ediff-fine-diff-A
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-fine-diff-Ancestor-voice
Personality used for ediff-fine-diff-Ancestor
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-fine-diff-B-voice
Personality used for ediff-fine-diff-B
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-fine-diff-C-voice
Personality used for ediff-fine-diff-C
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-odd-diff-A-voice
Personality used for ediff-odd-diff-A
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-odd-diff-Ancestor-voice
Personality used for ediff-odd-diff-Ancestor
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-odd-diff-B-voice
Personality used for ediff-odd-diff-B
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-odd-diff-C-voice
Personality used for ediff-odd-diff-C
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-elfeed-search-date-personality
Personality used for elfeed-search-date-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-elfeed-search-feed-personality
Personality used for elfeed-search-feed-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-elfeed-search-tag-personality
Personality used for elfeed-search-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-elfeed-search-title-personality
Personality used for elfeed-search-title-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-elfeed-search-unread-title-personality
Personality used for elfeed-search-unread-title-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-field-body-voice
Personality used for epa-field-body
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-field-name-voice
Personality used for epa-field-name
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-mark-voice
Personality used for epa-mark
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-string-voice
Personality used for epa-string
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-validity-disabled-voice
Personality used for epa-validity-disabled
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-validity-high-voice
Personality used for epa-validity-high
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-validity-low-voice
Personality used for epa-validity-low
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epa-validity-medium-voice
Personality used for epa-validity-medium
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-action-personality
Personality used for erc-action-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-bold-personality
Personality used for erc-bold-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-dangerous-host-personality
Personality used for erc-dangerous-host-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-direct-msg-personality
Personality used for erc-direct-msg-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-error-personality
Personality used for erc-error-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-input-personality
Personality used for erc-input-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-inverse-personality
Personality used for erc-inverse-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-keyword-personality
Personality used for erc-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-notice-personality
Personality used for erc-notice-face
This personality uses  (quote inaudible) whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing (quote inaudible)-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-pal-personality
Personality used for erc-pal-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-prompt-personality
Personality used for erc-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-underline-personality
Personality used for erc-underline-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-error-voice
Personality used for error
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-archive-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-archive-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-archive-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-archive
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-backup-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-backup-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-backup-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-backup
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-clutter-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-clutter-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-clutter-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-clutter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-directory-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-directory-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-directory-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-directory
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-executable-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-executable-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-executable-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-executable
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-missing-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-missing-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-missing-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-missing
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-product-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-product-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-product-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-product
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-readonly-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-readonly-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-readonly-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-readonly
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-special-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-special-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-special-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-special
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-symlink-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-symlink-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-symlink-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-symlink
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-unreadable-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-unreadable-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-unreadable-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-unreadable
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-prompt-personality
Personality used for eshell-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-prompt-voice
Personality used for eshell-prompt
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-form-checkbox-voice
Personality used for eww-form-checkbox
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-form-select-voice
Personality used for eww-form-select
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-form-submit-voice
Personality used for eww-form-submit
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-form-text-voice
Personality used for eww-form-text
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-invalid-certificate-voice
Personality used for eww-invalid-certificate
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-valid-certificate-voice
Personality used for eww-valid-certificate
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-fixed-pitch-voice
Personality used for fixed-pitch
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flx-highlight-personality
Personality used for flx-highlight-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flyspell-duplicate-voice
Personality used for flyspell-duplicate
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flyspell-incorrect-voice
Personality used for flyspell-incorrect
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-1-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-10-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-10
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-11-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-11
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-2-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-2
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-3-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-3
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-4-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-4
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-5-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-5
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-6-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-6
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-7-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-7
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-8-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-8
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-9-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-9
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-bold-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-bold
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-highlight-words-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-highlight-words
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-italic-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-italic
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-strikethru-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-strikethru
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-underline-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-underline
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-1-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-1-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-1-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-1
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-2-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-2-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-2-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-2
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-3-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-3-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-3-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-3
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-low-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-low-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-low-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-low
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-1-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-1-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-1-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-1
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-2-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-2-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-2-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-2
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-3-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-3-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-3-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-3
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-4-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-4-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-4-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-4
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-5-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-5-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-5-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-5
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-6-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-6-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-6-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-6
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-low-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-low-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-low-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-low
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-content-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-content
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-from-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-from
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-name-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-name
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-newsgroups-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-newsgroups
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-subject-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-subject
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-agent-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-agent
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-closed-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-closed
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-denied-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-denied
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-offline-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-offline
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-opened-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-opened
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-signature-voice
Personality used for gnus-signature
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-cancelled-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-cancelled
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-ancient-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-ancient
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-read-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-read
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-ticked-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-ticked
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-unread-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-unread
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-ancient-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-ancient
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-read-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-read
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-ticked-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-ticked
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-undownloaded-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-undownloaded
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-unread-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-unread
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-ancient-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-ancient
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-read-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-read
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-ticked-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-ticked
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-undownloaded-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-undownloaded
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-selected-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-selected
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-header-line-voice
Personality used for header-line
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-help-argument-name-voice
Personality used for help-argument-name
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-highlight-voice
Personality used for highlight
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-holiday-voice
Personality used for holiday
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hydra-face-amaranth-voice
Personality used for hydra-face-amaranth
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hydra-face-blue-voice
Personality used for hydra-face-blue
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hydra-face-pink-voice
Personality used for hydra-face-pink
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hydra-face-red-voice
Personality used for hydra-face-red
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hydra-face-teal-voice
Personality used for hydra-face-teal
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-first-match-voice
Personality used for ido-first-match
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-incomplete-regexp-voice
Personality used for ido-incomplete-regexp
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-indicator-voice
Personality used for ido-indicator
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-only-match-voice
Personality used for ido-only-match
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-subdir-voice
Personality used for ido-subdir
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-header-node-voice
Personality used for info-header-node
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-header-xref-voice
Personality used for info-header-xref
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-index-match-voice
Personality used for info-index-match
This personality uses  (quote voice-bolden-medium) whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing (quote voice-bolden-medium)-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-menu-header-voice
Personality used for info-menu-header
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-menu-star-voice
Personality used for info-menu-star
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-node-voice
Personality used for info-node
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-1-voice
Personality used for info-title-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-2-voice
Personality used for info-title-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-3-voice
Personality used for info-title-3
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-4-voice
Personality used for info-title-4
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-xref-visited-voice
Personality used for info-xref-visited
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-xref-voice
Personality used for info-xref
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-isearch-voice
Personality used for isearch
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-italic-voice
Personality used for italic
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-activity-personality
Personality used for jabber-activity-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-error-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-prompt-foreign-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-prompt-foreign
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-prompt-local-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-prompt-local
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-prompt-system-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-prompt-system
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-text-foreign-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-text-foreign
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-text-local-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-text-local
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-rare-time-personality
Personality used for jabber-rare-time-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-away-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-away
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-chatty-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-chatty
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-dnd-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-dnd
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-error-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-offline-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-offline
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-online-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-online
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-xa-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-xa
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-title-large-voice
Personality used for jabber-title-large
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-title-medium-voice
Personality used for jabber-title-medium
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-title-small-voice
Personality used for jabber-title-small
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-error-voice
Personality used for js2-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-external-variable-voice
Personality used for js2-external-variable
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-function-param-voice
Personality used for js2-function-param
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-instance-member-voice
Personality used for js2-instance-member
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-jsdoc-html-tag-delimiter-voice
Personality used for js2-jsdoc-html-tag-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-jsdoc-html-tag-name-voice
Personality used for js2-jsdoc-html-tag-name
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-jsdoc-tag-voice
Personality used for js2-jsdoc-tag
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-jsdoc-type-voice
Personality used for js2-jsdoc-type
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-jsdoc-value-voice
Personality used for js2-jsdoc-value
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-magic-paren-voice
Personality used for js2-magic-paren
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-private-function-call-voice
Personality used for js2-private-function-call
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-private-member-voice
Personality used for js2-private-member
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-js2-warning-voice
Personality used for js2-warning
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-link-visited-voice
Personality used for link-visited
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-link-voice
Personality used for link
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-match-voice
Personality used for match
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-cited-text-voice
Personality used for message-cited-text
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-cc-voice
Personality used for message-header-cc
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-name-voice
Personality used for message-header-name
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-newsgroups-voice
Personality used for message-header-newsgroups
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-other-voice
Personality used for message-header-other
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-subject-voice
Personality used for message-header-subject
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-to-voice
Personality used for message-header-to
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-xheader-voice
Personality used for message-header-xheader
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-mml-voice
Personality used for message-mml
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-separator-voice
Personality used for message-separator
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-minibuffer-prompt-voice
Personality used for minibuffer-prompt
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-calendar-event-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-calendar-event
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-calendar-sexp-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-calendar-sexp
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-column-dateline-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-column-dateline
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-diary-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-diary
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-dimmed-todo-personality
Personality used for org-agenda-dimmed-todo-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-done-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-done
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-filter-category-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-filter-category
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-filter-tags-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-filter-tags
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-restriction-lock-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-restriction-lock
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-agenda-structure-voice
Personality used for org-agenda-structure
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-archived-voice
Personality used for org-archived
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-beamer-tag-voice
Personality used for org-beamer-tag
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-block-background-voice
Personality used for org-block-background
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-block-voice
Personality used for org-block
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-checkbox-voice
Personality used for org-checkbox
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-clock-overlay-voice
Personality used for org-clock-overlay
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-code-voice
Personality used for org-code
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-column-title-voice
Personality used for org-column-title
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-column-voice
Personality used for org-column
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-date-selected-voice
Personality used for org-date-selected
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-date-voice
Personality used for org-date
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-default-voice
Personality used for org-default
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-document-info-keyword-voice
Personality used for org-document-info-keyword
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-document-info-voice
Personality used for org-document-info
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-document-title-voice
Personality used for org-document-title
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-done-voice
Personality used for org-done
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-drawer-voice
Personality used for org-drawer
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-ellipsis-voice
Personality used for org-ellipsis
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-footnote-voice
Personality used for org-footnote
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-formula-voice
Personality used for org-formula
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-alert-future-personality
Personality used for org-habit-alert-future-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-alert-personality
Personality used for org-habit-alert-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-clear-future-personality
Personality used for org-habit-clear-future-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-clear-personality
Personality used for org-habit-clear-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-overdue-future-personality
Personality used for org-habit-overdue-future-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-overdue-personality
Personality used for org-habit-overdue-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-ready-future-personality
Personality used for org-habit-ready-future-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-habit-ready-personality
Personality used for org-habit-ready-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-headline-done-voice
Personality used for org-headline-done
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-hide-voice
Personality used for org-hide
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-indent-voice
Personality used for org-indent
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-inlinetask-voice
Personality used for org-inlinetask
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-latex-and-export-specials-voice
Personality used for org-latex-and-export-specials
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-1-voice
Personality used for org-level-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-2-voice
Personality used for org-level-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-3-voice
Personality used for org-level-3
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-4-voice
Personality used for org-level-4
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-5-voice
Personality used for org-level-5
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-6-voice
Personality used for org-level-6
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-7-voice
Personality used for org-level-7
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-level-8-voice
Personality used for org-level-8
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-link-voice
Personality used for org-link
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-meta-line-voice
Personality used for org-meta-line
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-property-value-voice
Personality used for org-property-value
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-scheduled-previously-voice
Personality used for org-scheduled-previously
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-scheduled-today-voice
Personality used for org-scheduled-today
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-scheduled-voice
Personality used for org-scheduled
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-sexp-date-voice
Personality used for org-sexp-date
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-special-keyword-voice
Personality used for org-special-keyword
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-table-voice
Personality used for org-table
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-tag-voice
Personality used for org-tag
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-target-voice
Personality used for org-target
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-time-grid-voice
Personality used for org-time-grid
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-todo-voice
Personality used for org-todo
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-upcoming-deadline-voice
Personality used for org-upcoming-deadline
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-verbatim-voice
Personality used for org-verbatim
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-warning-voice
Personality used for org-warning
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-1-voice
Personality used for outline-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-2-voice
Personality used for outline-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-3-voice
Personality used for outline-3
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-4-voice
Personality used for outline-4
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-5-voice
Personality used for outline-5
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-6-voice
Personality used for outline-6
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-description-voice
Personality used for package-description
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-help-section-name-voice
Personality used for package-help-section-name
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-name-voice
Personality used for package-name
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-avail-obso-voice
Personality used for package-status-avail-obso
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-available-voice
Personality used for package-status-available
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-built-in-voice
Personality used for package-status-built-in
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-dependency-voice
Personality used for package-status-dependency
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-disabled-voice
Personality used for package-status-disabled
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-external-voice
Personality used for package-status-external
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-held-voice
Personality used for package-status-held
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-incompat-voice
Personality used for package-status-incompat
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-installed-voice
Personality used for package-status-installed
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-new-voice
Personality used for package-status-new
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-package-status-unsigned-voice
Personality used for package-status-unsigned
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-play-emacspeak-startup-icon
If set to T, emacspeak plays its icon as it launches.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-isearch-match-voice
Personality used for popup-isearch-match
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-menu-mouse-personality
Personality used for popup-menu-mouse-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-menu-personality
Personality used for popup-menu-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-menu-selection-personality
Personality used for popup-menu-selection-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-menu-summary-personality
Personality used for popup-menu-summary-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-personality
Personality used for popup-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-summary-personality
Personality used for popup-summary-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-popup-tip-personality
Personality used for popup-tip-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-query-replace-voice
Personality used for query-replace
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-region-voice
Personality used for region
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-shadow-voice
Personality used for shadow
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-shr-link-voice
Personality used for shr-link
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-startup-hook
Hook to run after starting emacspeak.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-success-voice
Personality used for success
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-term-underline-voice
Personality used for term-underline
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-underline-voice
Personality used for underline
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-bold-personality
Personality used for font-latex-bold-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-doctex-documentation-personality
Personality used for font-latex-doctex-documentation-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-doctex-preprocessor-personality
Personality used for font-latex-doctex-preprocessor-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-italic-personality
Personality used for font-latex-italic-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-math-personality
Personality used for font-latex-math-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-sedate-personality
Personality used for font-latex-sedate-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-string-personality
Personality used for font-latex-string-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-subscript-personality
Personality used for font-latex-subscript-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-superscript-personality
Personality used for font-latex-superscript-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-verbatim-personality
Personality used for font-latex-verbatim-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-warning-personality
Personality used for font-latex-warning-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-builtin-personality
Personality used for font-lock-builtin-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-delimiter-personality
Personality used for font-lock-comment-delimiter-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality
Personality used for font-lock-comment-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-constant-personality
Personality used for font-lock-constant-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-doc-personality
Personality used for font-lock-doc-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-function-name-personality
Personality used for font-lock-function-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-keyword-personality
Personality used for font-lock-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-negation-char-personality
Personality used for font-lock-negation-char-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-preprocessor-personality
Personality used for font-lock-preprocessor-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-reference-personality
Personality used for font-lock-reference-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-regexp-grouping-backslash
Personality used for font-lock-regexp-grouping-backslash
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-regexp-grouping-construct
Personality used for font-lock-regexp-grouping-construct
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-string-personality
Personality used for font-lock-string-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-type-personality
Personality used for font-lock-type-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-variable-name-personality
Personality used for font-lock-variable-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-warning-personality
Personality used for font-lock-warning-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-warning-voice
Personality used for warning
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-button-pressed-voice
Personality used for widget-button-pressed
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-button-voice
Personality used for widget-button
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-documentation-voice
Personality used for widget-documentation
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-field-voice
Personality used for widget-field
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-inactive-voice
Personality used for widget-inactive
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-single-line-field-voice
Personality used for widget-single-line-field
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-woman-bold-voice
Personality used for woman-bold
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-woman-edition-voice
Personality used for woman-edition
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-woman-italic-voice
Personality used for woman-italic
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-woman-unknown-voice
Personality used for woman-unknown
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-auth-lifetime
Auth lifetime.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-2048
@section emacspeak-2048

Speech-enable 2048 Game

@subsection emacspeak-2048 Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-add-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-add-column   
@findex emacspeak-2048-add-column

@format
Add a column  to the current board.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-add-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-add-row   
@findex emacspeak-2048-add-row

@format
Add a row  to the current board.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-drop-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-drop-row   
@findex emacspeak-2048-drop-row

@format
Drop last  row  from  the current board.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-export
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-export  (&optional prompt)
@findex emacspeak-2048-export

@format
Exports game stack to a file.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for a file.
Note that the file is overwritten silently.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-import
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-import  (&optional prompt)
@findex emacspeak-2048-import

@format
Import game.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for a filename.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-pop-state
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-pop-state   
@findex emacspeak-2048-pop-state

@format
Reset state from stack.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-prune-stack
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-prune-stack  (drop)
@findex emacspeak-2048-prune-stack

@format
Prune game stack to specified length.

(fn DROP)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-push-state
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-push-state   
@findex emacspeak-2048-push-state

@format
Push current game state on stack.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-randomize-game
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-randomize-game  (&optional count)
@findex emacspeak-2048-randomize-game

@format
Puts game in a randomized new state.

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-score
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-score   
@findex emacspeak-2048-score

@format
Show total on board.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-speak-board
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-speak-board   
@findex emacspeak-2048-speak-board

@format
Speak board.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-2048-speak-transposed-board
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-2048-speak-transposed-board   
@findex emacspeak-2048-speak-transposed-board

@format
Speak board column-wise.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-actions
@section emacspeak-actions

Define mode-specific  actions.
Actions are defined by adding them to hook
emacspeak-<mode-name>-actions-hook

@node emacspeak-add-log
@section emacspeak-add-log

Speech-enable Changelog mode

@subsection emacspeak-add-log Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-acknowledgement-voice
Personality used for change-log-acknowledgement
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-conditionals-voice
Personality used for change-log-conditionals
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-email-voice
Personality used for change-log-email
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-file-voice
Personality used for change-log-file
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-function-voice
Personality used for change-log-function
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-list-voice
Personality used for change-log-list
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-name-voice
Personality used for change-log-name
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-advice
@section emacspeak-advice

This module defines the advice forms for making the core of Emacs speak
Advice forms that are specific to Emacs subsystems do not belong here!
I violate this at present by advising completion comint and
shell here.

Note that we needed to advice a lot more for Emacs 19 and
Emacs 20 than we do for Emacs 21 and Emacs 22.
As of August 2007, this file is being purged of advice forms
not needed in Emacs 22.
This also means that this and subsequent versions of
Emacspeak should not be run on versions of Emacs older than
Emacs 21,
And preferably only run on Emacs 22.
This version of Emacspeak is only tested on Emacs 24 and later.

@subsection emacspeak-advice Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-eldoc-speak-doc
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eldoc-speak-doc   
@table @kbd
@item C-, ,
@kindex C-, ,
@item C-x @@ a ,
@kindex C-x @@ a ,
@end table

@findex emacspeak-eldoc-speak-doc

@format
Speak Eldoc documentation if available.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-advice Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-advice-progress-reporter
Set to true if progress reporter should produce an auditory
icon.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eldoc-speak-explicitly
Set to T if not using a separate TTS notification stream.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-errors
Specifies if error messages are cued.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-tooltips
Enable to get tooltips spoken.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-untabify-fixes-non-breaking-space
Advice untabify to change non-breaking space chars to space.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-amark
@section emacspeak-amark

Structure emacspeak-amark holds a bookmark into an mp3 file
path: fully qualified pathname  to file being marked
name: Bookmark tag
Position: time offset from start 

This library will be used from emacspeak-m-player,
emacspeak-mplayer and friends to set and jump to bookmarks.

@subsection emacspeak-amark Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-amark-add
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-amark-add  (path name position)
@findex emacspeak-amark-add

@format
Add an AMark to the buffer local list of AMarks. AMarks are
bookmarks in audio content. If there is an existing amark of the
given name, it is updated with path and position.

(fn PATH NAME POSITION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-amark-find
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-amark-find  (name)
@findex emacspeak-amark-find

@format
Return matching AMark if found in buffer-local AMark list.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-amark-load
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-amark-load   
@findex emacspeak-amark-load

@format
Locate AMarks file from current directory, and load it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-amark-save
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-amark-save   
@findex emacspeak-amark-save

@format
Save buffer-local AMarks in current directory.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-analog
@section emacspeak-analog

Speech-enables package analog --convenient log analyzer 

@subsection emacspeak-analog Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-analog-backward-field-or-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-analog-backward-field-or-char   
@findex emacspeak-analog-backward-field-or-char

@format
Move back to next field if field specification is available.
Otherwise move to previous char.
Speak field or char moved to.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-analog-forward-field-or-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-analog-forward-field-or-char   
@findex emacspeak-analog-forward-field-or-char

@format
Move forward to next field if field specification is available.
Otherwise move to next char.
Speak field or char moved to.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-analog-next-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-analog-next-line   
@findex emacspeak-analog-next-line

@format
Move down and speak current field.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-analog-previous-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-analog-previous-line   
@findex emacspeak-analog-previous-line

@format
Move up and speak current field.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-analog-speak-this-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-analog-speak-this-field   
@findex emacspeak-analog-speak-this-field

@format
Speak current field.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-analog Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-analog-entry-header-personality
Personality used for analog-entry-header-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ansi-color
@section emacspeak-ansi-color

Module ansi-color (bundled with Emacs 21)
handles ansi escape sequences and turns them into
appropriate faces.
This is useful in things like shell buffers.
This module maps ansi codes to the appropriate voices.

@node emacspeak-apt-sources
@section emacspeak-apt-sources

This module speech-enables apt-sources.el
that is included in the debian-el package
and provides a major mode for editing
APT's sources.list file.

@node emacspeak-arc
@section emacspeak-arc

Auditory interface to archive mode
This lets Emacs manipulate package files such as .zip and .jar files.

@subsection emacspeak-arc Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-arc-speak-file-modification-time
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-modification-time   
@findex emacspeak-arc-speak-file-modification-time

@format
Speak modification time of the file on current line
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-arc-speak-file-name
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-name   
@findex emacspeak-arc-speak-file-name

@format
Speak the name of the file on current line
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-arc-speak-file-permissions
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-permissions   
@findex emacspeak-arc-speak-file-permissions

@format
Speak permissions of file current entry 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-arc-speak-file-size
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-arc-speak-file-size   
@findex emacspeak-arc-speak-file-size

@format
Speak the size of the file on current line
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-auctex
@section emacspeak-auctex

Speech-enables the AucTeX package.
AucTeX, now available from ELPA, has been my authoring environment of choice for writing LaTeX since 1991.

@node emacspeak-aumix
@section emacspeak-aumix

Provides an AUI to setting up the auditory display via AUMIX
This module is presently Linux specific

@subsection emacspeak-aumix Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-aumix
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-aumix   
@findex emacspeak-aumix

@format
Setup output parameters of the auditory display.
 Launch this tool while you have auditory output on
multiple channels playing so you can
adjust the settings to your preference.  Hit q to quit when
you are done.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-aumix-edit
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-aumix-edit   
@findex emacspeak-aumix-edit

@format
Edit aumix settings interactively. 
Run command M-x emacspeak-aumix-reset
after saving the settings to have them take effect.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-aumix-reset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-aumix-reset   
@findex emacspeak-aumix-reset

@format
Reset to default audio settings.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-aumix-volume-decrease
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-aumix-volume-decrease  (&optional gain)
@findex emacspeak-aumix-volume-decrease

@format
Decrease overall volume. 

(fn &optional GAIN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-aumix-volume-increase
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-aumix-volume-increase  (&optional gain)
@findex emacspeak-aumix-volume-increase

@format
Increase overall volume. 

(fn &optional GAIN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease  (&optional gain)
@findex emacspeak-aumix-wave-decrease

@format
Decrease volume of wave output. 

(fn &optional GAIN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase  (&optional gain)
@findex emacspeak-aumix-wave-increase

@format
Increase volume of wave output. 

(fn &optional GAIN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-aumix Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-alsactl-program
ALSA sound controller used to restore settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-aumix-reset-options
*Option to pass to aumix for resetting to default values.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-aumix-settings-file
*Name of file containing personal aumix settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-bbc
@section emacspeak-bbc

BBC: http://www.bbc.co.uk
This module uses
publicly available REST APIs to implement a native Emacs
client for browsing and listening to BBC programs.

See http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/developers
The BBC API helps locate a PID for a given program stream.
We then construct the BBC IPlayer URL for that  PID,
And either hand that link off to Chrome,
Or stream it via get_iplayer and mplayer.
get_iplayer: https://github.com/get-iplayer/get_iplayer.git
get_player vs Chrome: Pro/Con:
Chrome: Has the UI for seeking in the stream.
get_iplayer: We use a named pipe, and cannot seek,
but the rest of emacspeak-m-player is available.
For downloading a program etc., use Emacs package iplayer.

@subsection emacspeak-bbc Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-bbc
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bbc  (&optional genre)
@table @kbd
@item C-' b
@kindex C-' b
@item C-x @@ s b
@kindex C-x @@ s b
@end table

@findex emacspeak-bbc

@format
Launch BBC Interaction.
See http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/stations for full list of stations.
See http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/programmes/genres for list of genres.
Interactive prefix arg filters  content by genre.

(fn &optional GENRE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bbc-genre
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bbc-genre   
@findex emacspeak-bbc-genre

@format
Launch BBC Interaction for specified Genre.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bbc-get-iplayer-stream-pid
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bbc-get-iplayer-stream-pid  (pid)
@findex emacspeak-bbc-get-iplayer-stream-pid

@format
Stream using get_iplayer.

(fn PID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bbc-get-iplayer-stream-url
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bbc-get-iplayer-stream-url  (url)
@findex emacspeak-bbc-get-iplayer-stream-url

@format
Stream using get_iplayer.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-bbc Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bbc-button-action
Action to use for BBC iPlayer buttons.
get-iplayer: use get_iplayer.
chrome: Hand off URL to Chrome.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bbc-get-iplayer
Name of get_iplayer executable.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-bbdb
@section emacspeak-bbdb

Speech-enables BBDB.
I have used BBDB to manage email address and contact information since 1991.

@node emacspeak-bibtex
@section emacspeak-bibtex

Speech extensions for bibtex mode.

@node emacspeak-bookmark
@section emacspeak-bookmark

Speech enable bookmarks

@node emacspeak-bookshare
@section emacspeak-bookshare

BOOKSHARE == http://www.bookshare.org
provides book access to print-disabled users.
It provides a simple Web  API http://developer.bookshare.org
This module implements an Emacspeak Bookshare client.
For now, users will need to get their own API key
This version needs Emacs with libxml2 support
You need Emacs 24.1 or higher.

@subsection emacspeak-bookshare Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-b
@kindex C-e C-b
@item <fn> C-b
@kindex <fn> C-b
@end table

@findex emacspeak-bookshare

@format
Bookshare  Interaction.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-action
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-action   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-action

@format
Call action specified by  invoking key.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-author-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-author-search  (query &optional category)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-author-search

@format
Perform a Bookshare author search.
Interactive prefix arg filters search by category.

(fn QUERY &optional CATEGORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-browse
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-browse   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-browse

@format
Browse Bookshare.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-browse-latest
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-browse-latest   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-browse-latest

@format
Return latest books.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-browse-popular
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-browse-popular  (&optional category)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-browse-popular

@format
Browse popular books.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for a category to use as a filter.

(fn &optional CATEGORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-audio
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-audio  (id target)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-audio

@format
Download audio format of specified book to target location.

(fn ID TARGET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-audio-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-audio-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-audio-at-point

@format
Download audio version of book under point.
Target location is generated from author and title.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-brf
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-brf  (id target)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-brf

@format
Download Daisy format of specified book to target location.

(fn ID TARGET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-brf-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-brf-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-brf-at-point

@format
Download Braille version of book under point.
Target location is generated from author and title.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-daisy
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-daisy  (id target)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-daisy

@format
Download Daisy format of specified book to target location.

(fn ID TARGET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-daisy-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-daisy-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-daisy-at-point

@format
Download Daisy version of book under point.
Target location is generated from author and title.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-epub-3
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-epub-3  (id target)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-epub-3

@format
Download epub-3 format of specified book to target location.

(fn ID TARGET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-epub-3-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-epub-3-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-epub-3-at-point

@format
Download epub-3 version of book under point.
Target location is generated from author and title.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-download-internal
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-download-internal  (url target)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-download-internal

@format
Download content  to target location.

(fn URL TARGET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-eww
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-eww  (directory)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-eww

@format
Render complete book using EWW

(fn DIRECTORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-expand-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-expand-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-expand-at-point

@format
Expand entry at point by retrieving metadata.
Once retrieved, memoize to avoid multiple retrievals.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-extract-and-view
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-extract-and-view  (url)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-extract-and-view

@format
Extract content referred to by link under point, and render via the browser.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-extract-xml
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-extract-xml  (url)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-extract-xml

@format
Extract content referred to by link under point, and return an XML buffer.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-flush-lines
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-flush-lines  (regexp)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-flush-lines

@format
Flush lines matching regexp in Bookshare buffer.

(fn REGEXP)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-fulltext
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-fulltext  (directory)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-fulltext

@format
Display fulltext contents of  book in specified directory.
Useful for fulltext search in a book.

(fn DIRECTORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-fulltext-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-fulltext-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-fulltext-search

@format
Perform a Bookshare fulltext search.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-get-more-results
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-get-more-results   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-get-more-results

@format
Get next page of results for last query.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-id-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-id-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-id-search

@format
Perform a Bookshare id search.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-isbn-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-isbn-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-isbn-search

@format
Perform a Bookshare isbn search.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-list-preferences
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-list-preferences   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-list-preferences

@format
Return preference list.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-mode   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-mode

@format
A Bookshare front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.

The Emacspeak Bookshare front-end is launched by command
emacspeak-bookshare bound to C-e C-b

This command switches to a special buffer that has Bookshare
commands bounds to single keystrokes-- see the key-binding list at
the end of this description. Use Emacs online help facility to
look up help on these commands.

emacspeak-bookshare-mode provides the necessary functionality to
Search and download Bookshare material,
Manage a local library of downloaded Bookshare content,
And commands to easily read newer Daisy books from Bookshare.

Here is a list of all emacspeak Bookshare commands  with their key-bindings:
a Author Search
A Author/Title Search
t Title Search
s Full Text Search
d Date Search
b Browse

key             binding
---             -------

RET		emacspeak-bookshare-toc-at-point
ESC		Prefix Command
SPC		emacspeak-bookshare-expand-at-point
+		emacspeak-bookshare-action
/		emacspeak-bookshare-action
3		emacspeak-bookshare-download-epub-3-at-point
A		emacspeak-bookshare-download-audio-at-point
B		emacspeak-bookshare-download-brf-at-point
C		emacspeak-bookshare-fulltext
D		emacspeak-bookshare-download-daisy-at-point
E		emacspeak-bookshare-eww
I		emacspeak-bookshare-action
P		emacspeak-bookshare-action
S		emacspeak-bookshare-action
U		emacspeak-bookshare-unpack-at-point
V		emacspeak-bookshare-view-at-point
[		backward-page
]		forward-page
a		emacspeak-bookshare-action
b		emacspeak-bookshare-browse
c		emacspeak-bookshare-toc-at-point
d		emacspeak-bookshare-action
e		emacspeak-epub
f		emacspeak-bookshare-flush-lines
i		emacspeak-bookshare-action
j		next-line
k		previous-line
l .. m		emacspeak-bookshare-action
p		emacspeak-bookshare-action
q		bury-buffer
s .. t		emacspeak-bookshare-action
v		emacspeak-bookshare-view

M-n		emacspeak-bookshare-next-result
M-p		emacspeak-bookshare-previous-result

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-bookshare-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-next-result
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-next-result   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-next-result

@format
Move to next result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-periodical-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-periodical-list   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-periodical-list

@format
Return list of periodicals.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-previous-result
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-previous-result   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-previous-result

@format
Move to previous result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-set-preference
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-set-preference  (preference-id value)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-set-preference

@format
Set preference preference-id to value.

(fn PREFERENCE-ID VALUE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-sign-out
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-sign-out   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-sign-out

@format
Sign out, clearing password.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-since-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-since-search  (query &optional category)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-since-search

@format
Perform a Bookshare date  search.
Optional interactive prefix arg filters by category.

(fn QUERY &optional CATEGORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-title-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-title-search  (query &optional category)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-title-search

@format
Perform a Bookshare title search.
Interactive prefix arg filters search by category.

(fn QUERY &optional CATEGORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-toc
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-toc  (directory)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-toc

@format
View TOC for book in specified directory.

(fn DIRECTORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-toc-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-toc-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-toc-at-point

@format
View TOC for book at point.
Make sure it’s downloaded and unpacked first.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-unpack-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-unpack-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-unpack-at-point

@format
Unpack downloaded content if necessary.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-url-executor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-url-executor  (url)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-url-executor

@format
Custom URL executor for use in Bookshare TOC.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-version-handler
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-version-handler  (&rest ignore)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-version-handler

@format
Do nothing and return nil.
This function accepts any number of arguments, but ignores them.

(fn &rest IGNORE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-view
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-view  (directory)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-view

@format
View book in specified directory.

(fn DIRECTORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-view-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-view-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-view-at-point

@format
View book at point.
Make sure it’s downloaded and unpacked first.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-bookshare-view-page-range
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bookshare-view-page-range  (url)
@findex emacspeak-bookshare-view-page-range

@format
Play pages in specified page range from URL.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-bookshare Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bookshare-api-key
Web API  key for this application.
See http://developer.bookshare.org/docs for details on how to get
  an API key. 

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bookshare-browser-function
Function to display Bookshare Book content in a WWW browser.
This is used by the various Bookshare view commands to display
  content from Daisy books.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bookshare-directory
Customize this to the root of where books are organized.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bookshare-html-to-text-command
Command to convert html to text on stdin.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bookshare-user-id
Bookshare user Id.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bookshare-xslt
Name of bookshare  XSL transform.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-browse-kill-ring
@section emacspeak-browse-kill-ring

Browse the kill ring using 
browse-kill-ring.el - interactively insert items from kill-ring (by Colin Walters)

@node emacspeak-bs
@section emacspeak-bs

speech-enable bs.el -- an alternative to Emacs' default  list-buffers

@subsection emacspeak-bs Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-bs-speak-buffer-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-bs-speak-buffer-line   
@findex emacspeak-bs-speak-buffer-line

@format
Speak information about this buffer
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-buff-menu
@section emacspeak-buff-menu

Speech-enable buffer-menus.

@subsection emacspeak-buff-menu Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-list-buffers-next-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-next-line  (count)
@findex emacspeak-list-buffers-next-line

@format
Speech enabled buffer menu navigation

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-list-buffers-previous-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-previous-line  (count)
@findex emacspeak-list-buffers-previous-line

@format
Speech enabled buffer menu navigation

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-line   
@findex emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-line

@format
Speak information about this buffer
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-name
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-name   
@findex emacspeak-list-buffers-speak-buffer-name

@format
Speak the name of the buffer on this line
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-c
@section emacspeak-c

Make some of C and C++ mode more emacspeak friendly
Works with both boring c-mode
and the excellent cc-mode

@subsection emacspeak-c Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-c-speak-semantics
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-c-speak-semantics   
@findex emacspeak-c-speak-semantics

@format
Speak the C semantics of this line. 
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-calc
@section emacspeak-calc

This module extends the Emacs Calculator.
Extensions are minimal.
We force a calc-load-everything,
And use an after advice on this function
To fix all of calc's interactive functions

@node emacspeak-calculator
@section emacspeak-calculator

Speech enable desktop calculator 

@node emacspeak-calendar
@section emacspeak-calendar

This module speech enables the Emacs Calendar.
Speech enabling is not the same as speaking the screen:
This is an excellent example of the advantages of speech-enabled  interaction.

@subsection emacspeak-calendar Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-appt-repeat-announcement
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-appt-repeat-announcement   
@table @kbd
@item C-e A
@kindex C-e A
@item <fn> A
@kindex <fn> A
@end table

@findex emacspeak-appt-repeat-announcement

@format
Speaks the most recently displayed appointment message if any.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-calendar-setup-sunrise-sunset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-calendar-setup-sunrise-sunset   
@findex emacspeak-calendar-setup-sunrise-sunset

@format
Set up geo-coordinates using Google Maps reverse geocoding.
To use, configure variable gweb-my-address via M-x customize-variable.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-calendar-speak-date
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-calendar-speak-date   
@findex emacspeak-calendar-speak-date

@format
Speak the date under point when called in Calendar Mode. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-calendar Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-calendar-mark-personality
Personality to use when showing marked calendar entries.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-cedet
@section emacspeak-cedet

CEDET consists of speedbar semantic ede and friends.
This module speech enables new functionality in semantic,
senator and friends

@node emacspeak-checkdoc
@section emacspeak-checkdoc

Speech-enable checkdoc.el

@node emacspeak-cider
@section emacspeak-cider

Speech-Enable CIDER --- Clojure IDE
CIDER ==

@subsection emacspeak-cider Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-debug-code-overlay-personality
Personality used for cider-debug-code-overlay-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-debug-prompt-personality
Personality used for cider-debug-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-deprecated-personality
Personality used for cider-deprecated-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-docview-emphasis-personality
Personality used for cider-docview-emphasis-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-docview-literal-personality
Personality used for cider-docview-literal-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-light whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-light-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-docview-strong-personality
Personality used for cider-docview-strong-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-enlightened-local-personality
Personality used for cider-enlightened-local-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-enlightened-personality
Personality used for cider-enlightened-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-error-highlight-personality
Personality used for cider-error-highlight-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-fragile-button-personality
Personality used for cider-fragile-button-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-instrumented-personality
Personality used for cider-instrumented-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-light whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-light-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-repl-input-personality
Personality used for cider-repl-input-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-repl-prompt-personality
Personality used for cider-repl-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-repl-result-personality
Personality used for cider-repl-result-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-repl-stderr-facevoice-animate-voice
Personality used for cider-repl-stderr-facevoice-animate
This personality uses  nil whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing nil-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-repl-stdout-personality
Personality used for cider-repl-stdout-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-result-overlay-personality
Personality used for cider-result-overlay-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-error-class-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-error-class-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-error-message-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-error-message-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-filter-hidden-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-filter-hidden-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-filter-shown-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-filter-shown-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-fn-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-fn-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-ns-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-ns-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-promoted-button-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-promoted-button-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-stacktrace-suppressed-button-personality
Personality used for cider-stacktrace-suppressed-button-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-test-error-personality
Personality used for cider-test-error-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-test-failure-personality
Personality used for cider-test-failure-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-test-success-personality
Personality used for cider-test-success-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-traced-personality
Personality used for cider-traced-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cider-warning-highlight-personality
Personality used for cider-warning-highlight-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ciel
@section emacspeak-ciel

Package ciel provides vim's "copy inside" and "clear inside" commands.
Emacspeak binds these commands to <Super i> and <Super o>.
This module speech-enables ciel.

@node emacspeak-clojure
@section emacspeak-clojure

CLOJURE-mode: Specialized mode for Clojure programming.

@subsection emacspeak-clojure Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-clojure-character-personality
Personality used for clojure-character-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-clojure-interop-method-personality
Personality used for clojure-interop-method-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-clojure-keyword-personality
Personality used for clojure-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-cmuscheme
@section emacspeak-cmuscheme

speech-enable scheme support 

@node emacspeak-company
@section emacspeak-company

COMPANY -mode: Complete Anything Support for emacs.

This module provides an Emacspeak Company Front-end, And advises
the needed interactive commands in Company. It adds an
emacspeak-specific front-end @code{emacspeak-company-frontend} to
the value of company-frontends. Note that @var{company-frontends}
is a user-customizable option and ends up getting saved by emacs
along with other custom settings. Function
@code{emacspeak-company-frontend} handles providing spoken
feedback, and leaves it to other frontends on
@var{company-frontends}   to generate their own feedback.

@node emacspeak-compile
@section emacspeak-compile

This module makes compiling code from inside Emacs speech friendly.
It is an example of how a little amount of code can make Emacspeak even better.

@subsection emacspeak-compile Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-compilation-speak-error
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-compilation-speak-error   
@findex emacspeak-compilation-speak-error

@format
Speech feedback about the compilation error. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-compile Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-column-number-voice
Personality used for compilation-column-number
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-error-voice
Personality used for compilation-error
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-info-voice
Personality used for compilation-info
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-line-number-voice
Personality used for compilation-line-number
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-warning-voice
Personality used for compilation-warning
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-cperl
@section emacspeak-cperl

Provide additional advice to CPerl mode 

@node emacspeak-custom
@section emacspeak-custom

Advise custom to speak.
most of the work is actually done by emacspeak-widget.el
which speech-enables the widget libraries.

@subsection emacspeak-custom Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-custom-goto-group
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-custom-goto-group   
@findex emacspeak-custom-goto-group

@format
Jump to custom group when in a customization buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-custom-goto-toolbar
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-custom-goto-toolbar   
@findex emacspeak-custom-goto-toolbar

@format
Jump to custom toolbar when in a customization buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-dbus
@section emacspeak-dbus

Set up Emacspeak to respond to DBus notifications
@subsection Overview

This module provides integration via DBus  for the following:
@itemize @bullet
@item Respond to network coming up or going down.
@item Respond to screen getting locked/unlocked by gnome-screen-saver
@item Respond to laptop  going to sleep or waking up.
@end itemize
See relevant hooks for customizing behavior.
Note that each of the  sleep/wake-up and network/up-down
can be separately enabled/disabled, and the actions customized
via appropriately named hook functions.

@subsection emacspeak-dbus Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-dbus-sleep-disable
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dbus-sleep-disable   
@findex emacspeak-dbus-sleep-disable

@format
Disable integration with login1 daemon. Does nothing if
already disabled.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dbus-sleep-enable
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dbus-sleep-enable   
@findex emacspeak-dbus-sleep-enable

@format
Enable integration with Login1. Does nothing if already enabled.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-screen-saver-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-screen-saver-mode   
@findex emacspeak-screen-saver-mode

@format
A light-weight mode for the ‘*Emacspeak Screen Saver *’ buffer.
This is a hidden buffer that is made current so we automatically
switch to a screen-saver soundscape.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-screen-saver-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-desktop
@section emacspeak-desktop

advice desktop package

@node emacspeak-dictionary
@section emacspeak-dictionary

Speech-enables emacs client for accessing dictionary
server at dict.org:2628

@node emacspeak-diff-mode
@section emacspeak-diff-mode

DIFF-MODE  support.

@node emacspeak-dired
@section emacspeak-dired

This module speech enables dired.
It reduces the amount of speech you hear:
Typically you hear the file names as you move through the dired buffer
Voicification is used to indicate directories, marked files etc.

@subsection emacspeak-dired Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-csv-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-csv-open   
@findex emacspeak-dired-csv-open

@format
Open CSV file on current dired line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-epub-eww
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-epub-eww   
@findex emacspeak-dired-epub-eww

@format
Open epub on current line  in EWW
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-eww-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-eww-open   
@findex emacspeak-dired-eww-open

@format
Open HTML file on current dired line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-label-fields
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-label-fields   
@findex emacspeak-dired-label-fields

@format
Labels the fields of the listing in the dired buffer.
Currently is a no-op  unless
unless ‘dired-listing-switches’ contains -l
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-md-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-md-open   
@findex emacspeak-dired-md-open

@format
Preview markdown  file on current dired line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-open-this-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-open-this-file   
@findex emacspeak-dired-open-this-file

@format
Smart dired opener. Invokes appropriate Emacspeak handler on  current file in DirEd.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-pdf-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-pdf-open   
@findex emacspeak-dired-pdf-open

@format
Open PDF file on current dired line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-show-file-type
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-show-file-type  (&optional file deref-symlinks)
@findex emacspeak-dired-show-file-type

@format
Displays type of current file by running command file.
Like Emacs’ built-in dired-show-file-type but allows user to customize
options passed to command ‘file’.

(fn &optional FILE DEREF-SYMLINKS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-speak-file-access-time
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-access-time   
@findex emacspeak-dired-speak-file-access-time

@format
Speak access time  of the current file.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-speak-file-modification-time
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-modification-time   
@findex emacspeak-dired-speak-file-modification-time

@format
Speak modification time  of the current file.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-speak-file-permissions
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-permissions   
@findex emacspeak-dired-speak-file-permissions

@format
Speak the permissions of the current file.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-speak-file-size
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-file-size   
@findex emacspeak-dired-speak-file-size

@format
Speak the size of the current file.
On a directory line, run du -s on the directory to speak its size.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-speak-header-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-header-line   
@findex emacspeak-dired-speak-header-line

@format
Speak the header line of the dired buffer. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dired-speak-symlink-target
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dired-speak-symlink-target   
@findex emacspeak-dired-speak-symlink-target

@format
Speaks the target of the symlink on the current line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-dired Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-file-cmd-options
Options passed to Unix builtin ‘file’ command.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-dismal
@section emacspeak-dismal

emacspeak extensions to the dismal spreadsheet. 

@subsection emacspeak-dismal Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-backward-col-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-backward-col-and-summarize  (cols)
@findex emacspeak-dismal-backward-col-and-summarize

@format
Move backward by arg columns
 (the previous column by default)and summarize it.

(fn COLS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-backward-row-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-backward-row-and-summarize  (rows)
@findex emacspeak-dismal-backward-row-and-summarize

@format
Move backward by arg rows
 (the previous row by default)and summarize it.

(fn ROWS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-col-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-col-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-col-summarize

@format
Summarizes a col using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-col-summarizer-list
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-expression
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-expression   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-expression

@format
Display the expression in the message area
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-value
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-value   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-value

@format
Display the cell value in the message area
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-col-header
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-col-header   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-col-header

@format
Display current cell along with its column header.
The ‘column header’ is the entry in row 0.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-row-header
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-row-header   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-display-cell-with-row-header

@format
Displays current cell along with its row header.
The ‘row header’ is the entry in column 0.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-forward-col-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-forward-col-and-summarize  (cols)
@findex emacspeak-dismal-forward-col-and-summarize

@format
Move forward by arg columns
 (the next column by default)and summarize it.

(fn COLS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-forward-row-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-forward-row-and-summarize  (rows)
@findex emacspeak-dismal-forward-row-and-summarize

@format
Move forward by arg rows
 (the next row by default)and summarize it.

(fn ROWS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-row-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-row-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-row-summarize

@format
Summarizes a row using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-row-summarizer-list
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-set-col-summarizer-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-set-col-summarizer-list   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-set-col-summarizer-list

@format
Specify or reset col summarizer list.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-set-row-summarizer-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-set-row-summarizer-list   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-set-row-summarizer-list

@format
Specify or reset row summarizer list.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-set-sheet-summarizer-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-set-sheet-summarizer-list   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-set-sheet-summarizer-list

@format
Specify or reset sheet summarizer list.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarize

@format
Summarizes a sheet using the specification in list
emacspeak-dismal-sheet-summarizer-list
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-dismal Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dismal-value-personality
Personality used for speaking cell values in summaries.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-dmacro
@section emacspeak-dmacro

Provide additional advice to dmacro.
dmacro is used to write code rapidly and consistently. 

@node emacspeak-ecb
@section emacspeak-ecb

The ECB is an Emacs Class Browser.
This module speech-enables ECB

@subsection emacspeak-ecb Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-directories
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-directories   
@findex emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-directories

@format
Speak contents of directories window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-history
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-history   
@findex emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-history

@format
Speak contents of history window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-methods
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-methods   
@findex emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-methods

@format
Speak contents of methods window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-sources
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-sources   
@findex emacspeak-ecb-speak-window-sources

@format
Speak contents of sources window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ecb-tree-backspace
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ecb-tree-backspace   
@findex emacspeak-ecb-tree-backspace

@format
Back up during incremental search in tree buffers.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ecb-tree-clear
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ecb-tree-clear   
@findex emacspeak-ecb-tree-clear

@format
Clear search pattern during incremental search in tree buffers.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-eclim
@section emacspeak-eclim

ECLIM ==  Eclipse/Vim integration.
http://www.eclim.org turns Eclipse into a headless server that can be called from other programs.
Package Emacs-Eclim connects Emacs to Eclim.
Package emacspeak-eclim speech-enables emacs-eclim.

@node emacspeak-ediary
@section emacspeak-ediary

ediary is a special mode for editing your.diary file.
This module speech-enables ediary

@node emacspeak-ediff
@section emacspeak-ediff

Ediff provides a nice visual interface to diff. ;;;Comparing and
patching files is easy with ediff when you can see the screen.
This module provides Emacspeak extensions to work fluently
with ediff. Try it out, it's an excellent example of why
Emacspeak is better than a traditional screenreader. This module
was originally written to interface to the old ediff.el bundled
with GNU Emacs 19.28 and earlier. It has been updated to work
with the newer and much larger ediff system found in Emacs 19.29
and later.

@subsection emacspeak-ediff Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-ediff-speak-current-difference
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ediff-speak-current-difference   
@findex emacspeak-ediff-speak-current-difference

@format
Speak the current difference
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ein
@section emacspeak-ein

EIN ==  Emacs IPython Notebook
You can install package EIN via ELPA
This module speech-enables EIN

@subsection emacspeak-ein Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-ein-speak-current-cell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ein-speak-current-cell   
@findex emacspeak-ein-speak-current-cell

@format
Speak current cell.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-ein Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-heading-1-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-heading-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-heading-2-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-heading-2
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-heading-3-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-heading-3
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-heading-4-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-heading-4
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-input-area-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-input-area
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-input-prompt-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-input-prompt
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-output-prompt-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-output-prompt
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ein:cell-output-stderr-voice
Personality used for ein:cell-output-stderr
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-elfeed
@section emacspeak-elfeed

ELFEED ==  Feed Reader for Emacs.
Install from elpa
M-x package-install  elfeed

@subsection emacspeak-elfeed Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-elfeed-eww-entry-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-elfeed-eww-entry-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-elfeed-eww-entry-at-point

@format
Display current article in EWW.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-elfeed-filter-entry-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-elfeed-filter-entry-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-elfeed-filter-entry-at-point

@format
Display current article after filtering.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-elfeed-next-entry
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-elfeed-next-entry   
@findex emacspeak-elfeed-next-entry

@format
Move to next entry and speak it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-elfeed-previous-entry
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-elfeed-previous-entry   
@findex emacspeak-elfeed-previous-entry

@format
Move to previous entry and speak it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-elfeed-speak-entry-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-elfeed-speak-entry-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-elfeed-speak-entry-at-point

@format
Speak entry at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-elfeed-w3-entry-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-elfeed-w3-entry-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-elfeed-w3-entry-at-point

@format
Display current article in W3.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-elfeed-w3-filter-entry-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-elfeed-w3-filter-entry-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-elfeed-w3-filter-entry-at-point

@format
Display current article after filtering using W3.
Work-around for async fetch bug in EWW.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-elisp-refs
@section emacspeak-elisp-refs

Speech-enable package elisp-refs.
ELISP-REFS == 

@node emacspeak-elpy
@section emacspeak-elpy

ELPY ==  Emacs Lisp Python IDE
Speech-enables all aspects of elpy.

@node emacspeak-elscreen
@section emacspeak-elscreen

ELSCREEN ==  Emacs Window Session Manager
Speech-enable interactive commands.

@subsection emacspeak-elscreen Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-elscreen-tab-current-screen-personality
Personality used for elscreen-tab-current-screen-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-elscreen-tab-other-screen-personality
Personality used for elscreen-tab-other-screen-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-emms
@section emacspeak-emms

Speech-enables EMMS --- the Emacs equivalent of XMMS
See
http://savannah.gnu.org/project/emms
EMMS is under active development,
to get the current CVS version, use Emacspeak command
M-x emacspeak-cvs-gnu-get-project-snapshot RET emms RET

@subsection emacspeak-emms Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-emms-speak-current-track
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-emms-speak-current-track   
@findex emacspeak-emms-speak-current-track

@format
Speak current track.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-enriched
@section emacspeak-enriched

emacspeak extensions to voiceify rich  text.

@subsection emacspeak-enriched Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-enriched-voiceify-faces
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-enriched-voiceify-faces  (start end)
@findex emacspeak-enriched-voiceify-faces

@format
Map base fonts to voices.
Useful in voiceifying rich text.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-entertain
@section emacspeak-entertain

Auditory interface to misc games

@subsection emacspeak-entertain Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-hangman-speak-guess
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-hangman-speak-guess   
@findex emacspeak-hangman-speak-guess

@format
Speak current guessed string. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-hangman-speak-statistics
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-hangman-speak-statistics   
@findex emacspeak-hangman-speak-statistics

@format
Speak statistics.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-entertain Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mpuz-solved-voice
Personality used for mpuz-solved
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mpuz-trivial-voice
Personality used for mpuz-trivial
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mpuz-unsolved-voice
Personality used for mpuz-unsolved
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-epa
@section emacspeak-epa

EPA == EasyPG Assistant
Integrate GPG functionality into Emacs.
Speech-enable all interactive commands.

@node emacspeak-eperiodic
@section emacspeak-eperiodic

eperiodic produces an interactive periodic table of elements
and can be found at 
http://vegemite.chem.nottingham.ac.uk/~matt/emacs/eperiodic.el

@subsection emacspeak-eperiodic Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-eperiodic-goto-property-section
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-goto-property-section   
@findex emacspeak-eperiodic-goto-property-section

@format
Mark position and jump to properties section.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eperiodic-next-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-next-line   
@findex emacspeak-eperiodic-next-line

@format
Move to next row and speak element.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eperiodic-play-description
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-play-description   
@findex emacspeak-eperiodic-play-description

@format
Play audio description from WebElements.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eperiodic-previous-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-previous-line   
@findex emacspeak-eperiodic-previous-line

@format
Move to next row and speak element.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eperiodic-speak-current-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eperiodic-speak-current-element   
@findex emacspeak-eperiodic-speak-current-element

@format
Speak element at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-eperiodic Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-discovered-after-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-discovered-after-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-discovered-before-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-discovered-before-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-discovered-in-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-discovered-in-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-f-block-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-f-block-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-gas-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-gas-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-group-number-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-group-number-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-header-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-header-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-liquid-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-liquid-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-media-location
Location of streaming media describing elements.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-p-block-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-p-block-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-period-number-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-period-number-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-s-block-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-s-block-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-solid-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-solid-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-unknown-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-unknown-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-epub
@section emacspeak-epub

In celebration of a million books and more to read from
Google Books
The EPubs format is slightly simpler than full Daisy ---
(see) emacspeak-daisy.el
Since it only needs one level of indirection (no audio,
therefore no smil). This module is consequently simpler than
emacspeak-daisy.el.
This module will eventually  implement the Google Books  API
--- probably by invoking the yet-to-be-written gbooks.el in emacs-g-client
As we move to epub-3, this module will bring back audio layers etc., perhaps via a simplified smil implementation.

@subsection emacspeak-epub Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-calibre-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-calibre-mode   
@findex emacspeak-calibre-mode

@format
A Calibre Front-end.
Letters do not insert themselves; instead, they are commands.

key             binding
---             -------

<Return>	emacspeak-epub-calibre-dired-at-point

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-calibre-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub   
@table @kbd
@item C-e g
@kindex C-e g
@item <fn> g
@kindex <fn> g
@end table

@findex emacspeak-epub

@format
EPub  Interaction.
For detailed documentation, see M-x emacspeak-epub-mode
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-directory
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-directory  (directory &optional recursive)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-directory

@format
Add EPubs found in specified directory to the bookshelf.
Interactive prefix arg searches recursively in directory.

(fn DIRECTORY &optional RECURSIVE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-epub
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-epub  (epub-file)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-epub

@format
Add epub file to current bookshelf.

(fn EPUB-FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-author
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-author  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-author

@format
Add results of an author search to current bookshelf.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-search  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-search

@format
Add results of an title/author search to current bookshelf.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-title
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-title  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-title

@format
Add results of an title search to current bookshelf.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-clear
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-clear   
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-clear

@format
Clear all books from bookshelf.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-load
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-load   
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-load

@format
Load bookshelf metadata from disk.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open  (bookshelf)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open

@format
Load bookshelf metadata from specified bookshelf.

(fn BOOKSHELF)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open-epub
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open-epub  (epub-file)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open-epub

@format
Open epub file and add it to current bookshelf.

(fn EPUB-FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-redraw
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-redraw  (&optional author-first)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-redraw

@format
Redraw Bookshelf.
Optional interactive prefix arg author-first prints author at the
  left.

(fn &optional AUTHOR-FIRST)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-refresh
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-refresh   
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-refresh

@format
Refresh and redraw bookshelf.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-directory
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-directory  (directory &optional recursive)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-directory

@format
Remove EPubs found in specified directory from the bookshelf.
Interactive prefix arg searches recursively in directory.

(fn DIRECTORY &optional RECURSIVE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-this-book
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-this-book   
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-this-book

@format
Remove the book on current line from this bookshelf.
No book files are deleted.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-rename
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-rename  (name &optional overwrite)
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-rename

@format
Saves current bookshelf to  specified name.
Interactive prefix arg ‘overwrite’ will overwrite existing file.

(fn NAME &optional OVERWRITE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-save
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-save   
@findex emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-save

@format
Save bookshelf metadata.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-browse-files
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-browse-files  (epub)
@findex emacspeak-epub-browse-files

@format
Browse list of HTML files in an EPub.
Useful if table of contents in toc.ncx is empty.

(fn EPUB)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-calibre-dired-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-calibre-dired-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-epub-calibre-dired-at-point

@format
Open directory containing current result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-calibre-results
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-calibre-results   
@findex emacspeak-epub-calibre-results

@format
Show most recent Calibre search results.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-delete
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-delete   
@findex emacspeak-epub-delete

@format
Delete EPub under point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-eww
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-eww  (epub-file)
@findex emacspeak-epub-eww

@format
Display entire book  using EWW from EPub.

(fn EPUB-FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-fulltext
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-fulltext  (epub-file)
@findex emacspeak-epub-fulltext

@format
Display fulltext from EPub in a buffer.
Suitable for text searches.

(fn EPUB-FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-google
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-google  (query)
@findex emacspeak-epub-google

@format
Search for Epubs from Google Books.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-catalog
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-catalog  (&optional refresh)
@findex emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-catalog

@format
Open Gutenberg catalog.
Fetch if needed, or if refresh is T.

(fn &optional REFRESH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-download
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-download  (book-id)
@findex emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-download

@format
Download specified EBook to local cache

(fn BOOK-ID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-locate-epubs
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-locate-epubs  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-epub-locate-epubs

@format
Locate epub files using locate.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-mode   
@findex emacspeak-epub-mode

@format
An EPub Front-end.
Letters do not insert themselves; instead, they are commands.

key             binding
---             -------

C-a		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-directory
C-d		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-directory
C-k		emacspeak-epub-delete
C-l		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-redraw
RET		emacspeak-epub-open
C-o		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open-epub
C-x		Prefix Command
ESC		Prefix Command
/		emacspeak-epub-calibre-results
A		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-author
C		emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-catalog
G		emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-download
S		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-search
T		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-calibre-title
a		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-add-epub
b		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-open
c		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-clear
d		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-remove-this-book
e		emacspeak-epub-eww
f		emacspeak-epub-browse-files
g		emacspeak-epub-google
l		emacspeak-epub-locate-epubs
n		next-line
o		emacspeak-epub-open
p		previous-line
r		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-rename
t		emacspeak-epub-fulltext

M-s		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-save

C-x C-q		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-refresh
C-x C-s		emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-save

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-epub-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-next
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-next   
@findex emacspeak-epub-next

@format
Move to next book.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-open  (epub-file)
@findex emacspeak-epub-open

@format
Open specified Epub.
Filename may need to  be shell-quoted when called from Lisp.

(fn EPUB-FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-previous
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-previous   
@findex emacspeak-epub-previous

@format
Move to previous book.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-epub-url-executor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-epub-url-executor  (url)
@findex emacspeak-epub-url-executor

@format
Custom URL executor for use in EPub Mode.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-epub Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epub-bookshelf-directory
Directory where we keep .bsf files defining various bookshelves.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epub-calibre-root-dir
Root of Calibre library.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epub-calibre-sqlite
Path to sqlite3.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-mirror
Base URL  for Gutenberg mirror.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epub-gutenberg-suffix
Suffix of book type we retrieve.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epub-html-to-text-command
Command to convert html to text on stdin.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-epub-library-directory
Directory under which we store Epubs.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-erc
@section emacspeak-erc

erc.el is a modern Emacs client for IRC including color
and font locking support. 
erc.el - an Emacs IRC client (by Alexander L. Belikoff)
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~berez/irc/erc.el

@subsection emacspeak-erc Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-erc-add-name-to-monitor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-erc-add-name-to-monitor  (name &optional quiten-pronunciation)
@findex emacspeak-erc-add-name-to-monitor

@format
Add people to monitor in this room.
Optional interactive prefix  arg defines a pronunciation that
  silences speaking of this perso’s name.

(fn NAME &optional QUITEN-PRONUNCIATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-erc-delete-name-from-monitor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-erc-delete-name-from-monitor  (name)
@findex emacspeak-erc-delete-name-from-monitor

@format
Remove name to monitor in this room.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-erc-setup-cricket-rules
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-erc-setup-cricket-rules   
@findex emacspeak-erc-setup-cricket-rules

@format
Set up #cricket channels.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-erc-toggle-my-monitor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-erc-toggle-my-monitor  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-erc-toggle-my-monitor

@format
Toggle state of ERC  monitor of my messages.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-erc-toggle-room-monitor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-erc-toggle-room-monitor  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-erc-toggle-room-monitor

@format
Toggle state of ERC room monitor.
Interactive 
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-erc-toggle-speak-all-participants
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-erc-toggle-speak-all-participants  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-erc-toggle-speak-all-participants

@format
Toggle state of ERC speak all participants..
Interactive 
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-erc Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-ignore-notices
Set to T if you dont want to see notification  messages from the
server.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-my-nick
My IRC nick.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-speak-all-participants
Speak all things said if t.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-eshell
@section emacspeak-eshell

EShell is a shell implemented entirely in Emacs Lisp.
It is part of emacs 21 --and can also be used under
Emacs 20.
This module speech-enables EShell

@subsection emacspeak-eshell Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-use-personalities
Indicates if ls in eshell uses different voice
personalities.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ess
@section emacspeak-ess

ESS == Emacs Speaks Statistics
This module makes ESS speak.

@node emacspeak-etable
@section emacspeak-etable

table.el provides rich table editing for emacs.
this module speech-enables table.el

@subsection emacspeak-etable Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-etable-speak-cell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-etable-speak-cell   
@findex emacspeak-etable-speak-cell

@format
Speak current cell.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-eterm
@section emacspeak-eterm

This module makes eterm talk.
Eterm is the new terminal emulator for Emacs.
Use of emacspeak with eterm really needs an info page.
At present, the only documentation is the source level documentation.
This module uses Control-t as an additional prefix key to allow the user
To move around the terminal and have different parts spoken. 

@subsection emacspeak-eterm Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-copy-region-to-register
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-copy-region-to-register  (&rest rest)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-copy-region-to-register

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-emacspeak-eterm-copy-region-to-register’

Copy text from terminal to an Emacs REGISTER.
This copies  region delimited by the emacspeak eterm marker 
set by command M-x emacspeak-eterm-set-marker and the 
emacspeak eterm pointer to a register.

(fn REGISTER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-define-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-define-window  (id)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-define-window

@format
Prompt for a window ID.
The window is then define to be
the rectangle delimited by point and eterm mark.  This is to
be used when emacspeak is set to review mode inside an
eterm.

(fn ID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-describe-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-describe-window  (id)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-describe-window

@format
Describe an eterm  window.
Description indicates eterm window coordinates and whether it is stretchable

(fn ID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-goto-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-goto-line  (line)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-goto-line

@format
Move emacspeak eterm pointer to a specified LINE.

(fn LINE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-kill-ring-save-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-kill-ring-save-region   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-kill-ring-save-region

@format
Copy text from terminal to kill ring.
This copies  region delimited by the emacspeak eterm marker 
set by command M-x emacspeak-eterm-set-marker and the 
emacspeak eterm pointer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-maybe-send-raw
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-maybe-send-raw   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-maybe-send-raw

@format
Send a raw character through if in the terminal buffer.
Execute end of line if
in a non eterm buffer if executed via C-e C-e
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-paste-register
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-paste-register  (&rest rest)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-paste-register

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-emacspeak-eterm-paste-register’

Paste contents of REGISTER at current location.
If the specified register contains text, then that text is
sent to the terminal as if it were typed by the user.

(fn REGISTER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-backward-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-backward-word  (count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-backward-word

@format
Move the pointer backward  by words. 
Interactive numeric prefix arg specifies number of words to move.
Argument COUNT specifies number of words by which to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-down
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-down  (count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-down

@format
Move the pointer down a line.
Argument COUNT specifies number of lines by which to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-forward-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-forward-word  (count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-forward-word

@format
Move the pointer forward by words. 
Interactive numeric prefix arg specifies number of words to move.
Argument COUNT specifies number of words by which to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-left
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-left  (count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-left

@format
Move the pointer left.
Argument COUNT specifies number of columns by which to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-right
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-right  (count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-right

@format
Move the pointer right.
Argument COUNT specifies number of columns by which to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-bottom
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-bottom   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-bottom

@format
Move the pointer to the bottom  of the screen.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-cursor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-cursor   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-cursor

@format
Move the pointer to the cursor.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-left-edge
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-left-edge   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-left-edge

@format
Move the pointer to the right edge.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-next-color-change
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-next-color-change  (&optional count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-next-color-change

@format
Move the eterm pointer to the next color change.
This allows you to move between highlighted regions of the screen.
Optional argument COUNT specifies how many changes to skip.

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-previous-color-change
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-previous-color-change  (&optional count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-previous-color-change

@format
Move the eterm pointer to the next color change.
This allows you to move between highlighted regions of the screen.
Optional argument COUNT specifies how many changes to skip.

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-right-edge
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-right-edge   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-right-edge

@format
Move the pointer to the right edge.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-top
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-top   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-to-top

@format
Move the pointer to the top of the screen.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-pointer-up
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-pointer-up  (count)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-pointer-up

@format
Move the pointer up a line.
Argument COUNT .specifies number of lines by which to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-remote-term
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-remote-term  (host)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-remote-term

@format
Start a terminal-emulator in a new buffer.

(fn HOST)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-search-backward
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-search-backward   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-search-backward

@format
Search backward on the terminal.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-search-forward
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-search-forward   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-search-forward

@format
Search forward on the terminal.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-set-filter-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-set-filter-window  (flag)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-set-filter-window

@format
Prompt for the id of a predefined window,
and set the ‘filter’ window to it.
Non-nil interactive prefix arg ‘unsets’ the filter window;
this is equivalent to having the entire terminal as the filter window (this is
what eterm starts up with).
Setting the filter window results in emacspeak  only monitoring screen
activity within the filter window.

(fn FLAG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-set-focus-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-set-focus-window  (flag)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-set-focus-window

@format
Prompt for the id of a predefined window,
and set the ‘focus’ window to it.
Non-nil interactive prefix arg ‘unsets’ the focus window;
this is equivalent to having the entire terminal as the focus window (this is
what eterm starts up with).
Setting the focus window results in emacspeak  monitoring screen
and speaking that window upon seeing screen activity.

(fn FLAG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-set-marker
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-set-marker   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-set-marker

@format
Set Emacspeak eterm marker.
This sets  the emacspeak eterm marker to the position pointed 
to by the emacspeak eterm pointer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-cursor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-cursor   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-cursor

@format
Speak cursor position.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer

@format
Speak current pointer position.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-char  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-char

@format
Speak char under eterm pointer.
Pronounces character phonetically unless  called with a PREFIX arg.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-line   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-line

@format
Speak the line the pointer is on.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-word   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-pointer-word

@format
Speak the word  the pointer is on.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-predefined-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-predefined-window   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-predefined-window

@format
Speak a predefined eterm window between 1 and 10.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-screen
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-screen  (&optional flag)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-screen

@format
Speak the screen.  Default is to speak from the emacspeak pointer  to point.
Optional prefix arg FLAG causes region above
the Emacspeak pointer to be spoken.

(fn &optional FLAG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-speak-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-speak-window  (id)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-speak-window

@format
Speak an eterm window.
Argument ID specifies the window.

(fn ID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-toggle-filter-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-filter-window   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-toggle-filter-window

@format
Toggle active state of filter window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-toggle-focus-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-focus-window   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-toggle-focus-window

@format
Toggle active state of focus window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-toggle-pointer-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-pointer-mode  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-toggle-pointer-mode

@format
Toggle emacspeak eterm pointer mode.
With optional interactive prefix  arg, turn it on.
When emacspeak eterm is in pointer mode, the eterm read pointer
stays where it is rather than automatically moving to the terminal cursor when
there is terminal activity.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-toggle-review
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-toggle-review   
@findex emacspeak-eterm-toggle-review

@format
Toggle state of eterm review. 
In review mode, you can move around the terminal and listen to the contents 
without sending input to the terminal itself.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eterm-yank-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eterm-yank-window  (id)
@findex emacspeak-eterm-yank-window

@format
Yank contents of  an eterm window at point.

(fn ID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-eterm-autospeak
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-eterm-autospeak  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-toggle-eterm-autospeak

@format
Toggle state of eterm autospeak.
When eterm autospeak is turned on and the terminal is in line mode,
all output to the terminal is automatically spoken. 
  Interactive prefix arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
  current local  value to the result. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-eterm Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-bold-personality
Personality to indicate terminal bold.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-default-personality
Default personality for terminal.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-highlight-personality
Personality to show terminal highlighting.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-remote-hosts-cache
File where list of known remote hosts is cached

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-underline-personality
Personality to indicate terminal underlining.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-eudc
@section emacspeak-eudc

EUDC --Emacs Universal Directory Client 
provides a unified interface to directory servers
e.g. ldap servers
this module speech enables eudc 

@subsection emacspeak-eudc Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-eudc-send-mail
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eudc-send-mail   
@findex emacspeak-eudc-send-mail

@format
Send email to the address given by the current record. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-eudc Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eudc-attribute-value-personality
Personality t use for voiceifying attribute values. 

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-evil
@section emacspeak-evil

EVIL ==  VIM In Emacs
This is work-in-progress and is not complete.

@subsection emacspeak-evil Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-evil-toggle-evil
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-evil-toggle-evil   
@table @kbd
@item C-; v
@kindex C-; v
@item C-x @@ h v
@kindex C-x @@ h v
@end table

@findex emacspeak-evil-toggle-evil

@format
Interactively toggle evil-mode.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-evil Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-evil-ex-commands-voice
Personality used for evil-ex-commands
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-evil-ex-info-voice
Personality used for evil-ex-info
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-evil-ex-lazy-highlight-voice
Personality used for evil-ex-lazy-highlight
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-evil-ex-search-voice
Personality used for evil-ex-search
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-evil-ex-substitute-matches-voice
Personality used for evil-ex-substitute-matches
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-evil-ex-substitute-replacement-voice
Personality used for evil-ex-substitute-replacement
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-eww
@section emacspeak-eww

EWW == Emacs Web Browser

EWW is a light-weight Web browser built into Emacs starting with
Emacs-24.4 . This module speech-enables EWW.

It implements additional interactive commands for navigating the
DOM. It also provides a set of filters for interactively filtering
the DOM by various attributes such as id, class and role.
Finally, this module updates EWW's built-in key-bindings with
Emacspeak conveniences.

@subsection Structured Navigation

These commands move through section headers as defined in HTML.
@table @kbd
@item       1
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-h1}
Move to next @code{H1} heading.
@item       2
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-h2}
Move to next @code{H2} heading.
@item       3
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-h3}
Move to next @code{H3} heading.
@item       4
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-h4}
Move to next @code{H4} heading.
@item       .
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-h}
Move to next heading. (@code{H1}...@code{H4}).
@item       M-1
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-h1}
Move to previous @code{H1} heading.
@item       M-2
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-h2}
Move to previous @code{H2} heading.
@item       M-3
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-h3}
Move to previous @code{H3} heading.
@item       M-4
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-h4}
Move to previous @code{H4} heading.
@item  ,
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-h}
Move to previous heading (@code{H1}...@code{H4}).
@end table

This next set of DOM commands enable navigating by HTML elements.
@table @kbd
@item       M-SPC
@command{emacspeak-eww-speak-this-element}
Speak contents of current element.
@item       J
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-element-like-this}
Jump to next element that is the same as the one under point.
If there are multiple HTML elements under point,
prompts for element-name using completion.
@item       K
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-element-like-this}
Jump to previous element that is the same as the one under point.
If there are multiple HTML elements under point,
prompts for element-name using completion.
@item  N
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-element-from-history}
Jump to next element based on  previous J/K command history.
@item       P
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-element-from-history}
Jump to previous element based on  previous J/K history.
@item       O
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-li}
Jump to previous list item.
@item       o
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-li}
Jump to next list item.
@item       T
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-table}
Jump to previous table in page.
@item  t
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-table}
Jump to next table.
@item       [
            @command{emacspeak-eww-previous-p}
            Jump to previous paragraph.
            @item  ]
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-p}
Jump to next paragraph.
@item       b
@command{shr-previous-link}
Jump to previous link.
@item  f
@command{shr-next-link}
Jump to next link.
@item  n
@command{emacspeak-eww-next-element}
Jump to next element.
@item       p
@command{emacspeak-eww-previous-element}
Jump to previous element.
@item       s
@command{eww-readable}
Use EWW's built-in readable tool.
@item :
@command{emacspeak-eww-tags-at-point}
Display  currently active HTML tags at point.
@end table

@subsection Filtering Content Using The DOM
These commands use EWW's HTML DOM to display different filtered
views of the Web page.
With an interactive prefix argument, these commands prompt for a
list of filters.
Command @command{emacspeak-eww-restore} bound to @kbd{DEL} can be used
to restore the previous view.

@table @kbd
@item  A
@command{eww-view-dom-having-attribute}
Display DOM nodes having specified attribute. Valid attributes
are available via completion.
@item       C
@command{eww-view-dom-having-class}
Display DOM nodes having specified class. Valid classes
are available via completion.
@item  E
@command{eww-view-dom-having-elements}
Display specified elements from the Dom. Valid element names
are available via completion.
@item  I
@command{eww-view-dom-having-id}
Display DOM nodes having specified ID. Valid id values
are available via completion.
@item  R
@command{eww-view-dom-having-role}
Display DOM nodes having specified role. Valid roles
are available via completion.
@item       M-a
@command{eww-view-dom-not-having-attribute}
Filter out DOM nodes having specified attribute. Valid attribute values
are available via completion.
@item       M-c
@command{eww-view-dom-not-having-class}
Filter out DOM nodes having specified class. Valid class values
are available via completion.
@item       M-e
@command{eww-view-dom-not-having-elements}
Filter out  specified element DOM nodes. Valid element names
are available via completion.
@item       M-i
@command{eww-view-dom-not-having-id}
Dfilter out Display DOM nodes having specified ID. Valid id values
are available via completion.
@item       M-r
@command{eww-view-dom-not-having-role}
Filter out  DOM nodes having specified role. Valid role values
are available via completion.
@end table

@subsection Updated  Commands For Following  Links

These key-bindings are available when point is on a link. They
enable context-specific actions for following links, e.g., to play
media streams, or to open various feed-types such as @code{ATOM},
@code{RSS}, or @code{OPML}.

@table @kbd
@item k
@command{shr-copy-url}
Copy URL under point to the kill-ring.
@item ;
@command{emacspeak-webutils-play-media-at-point}
Play media URL under point using @code{emacs-m-player}.
@item U
@command{emacspeak-webutils-curl-play-media-at-point}
Play media url under point by first downloading the URL using
CURL. This is useful for sites that do multiple redirects before
returning the actual media stream URL.
@item C-o
@command{emacspeak-feeds-opml-display}
Display link under point as an @code{OPML} feed .
@item C-r
@command{emacspeak-feeds-rss-display}
Display link under point as an @code{RSS} feed.
@item C-a
@command{emacspeak-feeds-atom-display}
Display link under point as an @code{ATOM} feed.
item y
@command{emacspeak-m-player-youtube-player}
Play link under point as a Youtube stream.
@end table

@subsection Miscellaneous Commands

@table @kbd
@item '
@command{emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer}
Speak rest of current Web page starting from point.
@item *
@command{eww-add-bookmark}
Bookmark current Web page.
@item = @command{dtk-toggle-punctuation-mode}
Toggle punctuation mode.
@item ?
@command{emacspeak-webutils-google-similar-to-this-page}
Google similarity search.
@item C-t
@command{emacspeak-eww-transcode}
Transcode current page to something more readable.
@item G @command{emacspeak-google-command}
Prefix key to invoke Google-specific commands.
@item L
@command{emacspeak-eww-links-rel}
Display any related links discovered via the document's @code{meta} tag.
@item Q
@command{emacspeak-kill-buffer-quietly}
Delete this buffer.
@item V
@command{eww-view-source}
Display Web page source.
@item e
@command{emacspeak-we-xsl-map}
Prefix key for invoking XSLT-based filters.
@item k
@command{eww-copy-page-url}
Copy page URL to kill-ring.
@end table

In addition, see commands in
@xref{emacspeak-google},  for Google-Search specific commands, many of
which are available via prefix-key @kbd{G}.

@subsection Filtering Content Using XSLT And XPath

@table @kbd
@item C-c
@command{emacspeak-we-junk-by-class-list}
Prompts for list of class-names with completion,
and filters out matching elements.
@item C-f
@command{emacspeak-we-count-matches}
Prompts for XPath expression, and returns count of matching elements.
@item C-p
@command{emacspeak-we-xpath-junk-and-follow}
Follows link under point, and displays that page
after filtering by a specified XPath expression.
@item C-t
@command{emacspeak-we-count-tables}
Display a count of tables in the page.
@item C-x
@command{emacspeak-we-count-nested-tables}
Counts nested tables.
@item C
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-by-class-list}
Prompts for a list of class-names, and displays matching elements.
@item D
@command{emacspeak-we-junk-by-class-list}
Filters out elements  having specified class attributes.
@item I
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-by-id-list}
Extracts elements by specified list of ID values.
@item M
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-match-list}
Extracts tables that match specified selection pattern.
@item P
@command{emacspeak-we-follow-and-extract-main}
Follows link under point, and extracts readable content,
by default, this is all paragraphs and headings.
@item S
@command{emacspeak-we-style-filter}
Filters content by style attribute.
@item T
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-position-list}
Extracts tables by their position on the page.
@item X
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table-list}
Extracts nested tables.
@item a
@command{emacspeak-we-xslt-apply}
Prompt for and apply specified XSLT transform to current page.
@item b
@command{emacspeak-we-follow-and-filter-by-id}
Follow link under point, and filter by specified id value.
@item c
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-by-class}
Extracts elements by class.
@item d
@command{emacspeak-we-junk-by-class}
Filters out elements having specified class value.
@item e
@command{emacspeak-we-url-expand-and-execute}
Follow link under point, but pass the result to a custom executor.
@item f
@command{emacspeak-we-xslt-filter}
Apply a specified XSLT filter (XPath) to current page.
@item i
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-by-id}
Extract elements by id value.
@item j
@command{emacspeak-we-xslt-junk}
Filter out elements matching specified pattern.
@item k
@command{emacspeak-we-toggle-xsl-keep-result}
Debugging tool  --- retains the  HTML source after XSLT.
@item m
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-match}
Extract matching table.
@item p
@command{emacspeak-we-xpath-filter-and-follow}
Follow link under point, and filter results by a specified XPath filter.
@item r
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-by-role}
Extract elements by specified role value.
@item s
@command{emacspeak-we-xslt-select}
Select default XSLT transform that is applied before rendering the page.
@item t
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-position}
Extracts tables by their position on the page.
@item u
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-matching-urls}
Display matching links on the page.
@item v
@command{emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow-link}
Follow link under point, and filter by specified class value.
@item w
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-by-property}
Extract element using a combination of DOM attributes.
@item x
@command{emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table}
Extract a nested table using a match-list.
@item y
@command{emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow}
Follow link under point and filter by class values.
@end table
@subsection EWW And EBooks On The Emacspeak Audio Desktop
Modules emacspeak-epub and emacspeak-bookshare provide EBook
front-ends to EPub-2 and Daisy EBooks. Both modules now use EWW to
render these EBooks. Module emacspeak-eww provides a simple
bookmarking facility --- called eww-marks (to avoid confusion with
EWW's Web Bookmarks). When reading an EBook, you can use @code{m}
to create an EWW-mark at that position. These marks are
automatically saved across Emacs sessions. To open a previously
created eww-mark, use command @code{emacspeak-eww-open-mark} bound
to @code{C-x r e}. This command reads a eww-mark name with
completion. Use this command with an interactive prefix arg to
delete a previously created eww-mark.

@subsection emacspeak-eww Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-add-mark
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-add-mark  (name)
@findex emacspeak-eww-add-mark

@format
Interactively add a mark with name title+‘name’ at current position.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-delete-mark
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-delete-mark  (name)
@findex emacspeak-eww-delete-mark

@format
Interactively delete a mark with name ‘name’ at current position.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-google-knowledge-card
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-google-knowledge-card   
@findex emacspeak-eww-google-knowledge-card

@format
Show just the knowledge card.
Warning, this is fragile, and depends on a stable id for the
  knowledge card.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-links-rel
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-links-rel   
@findex emacspeak-eww-links-rel

@format
Display Link tags of type rel.  Web pages for which alternate links
are available are cued by an auditory icon on the header line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-marks-load
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-marks-load   
@findex emacspeak-eww-marks-load

@format
Load saved marks.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-marks-save
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-marks-save   
@findex emacspeak-eww-marks-save

@format
Save Emacspeak EWW marks.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-masquerade
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-masquerade   
@findex emacspeak-eww-masquerade

@format
Toggle masquerade state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-element  (el)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-element

@format
Move forward to the next specified element.

(fn EL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-element-from-history
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-element-from-history   
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-element-from-history

@format
Uses element navigation history to decide where we jump.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-element-like-this
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-element-like-this  (element)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-element-like-this

@format
Moves to next element like current.
Prompts if content at point is enclosed by multiple elements.

(fn ELEMENT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-h
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-h  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-h

@format
Move forward to the next h.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-h1
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-h1  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-h1

@format
Move forward to the next h1.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-h2
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-h2  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-h2

@format
Move forward to the next h2.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-h3
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-h3  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-h3

@format
Move forward to the next h3.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-h4
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-h4  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-h4

@format
Move forward to the next h4.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-h5
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-h5  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-h5

@format
Move forward to the next h5.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-h6
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-h6  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-h6

@format
Move forward to the next h6.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-li
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-li  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-li

@format
Move forward to the next li.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-ol
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-ol  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-ol

@format
Move forward to the next ol.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-p
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-p  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-p

@format
Move forward to the next p.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-table
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-table  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-table

@format
Move forward to the next table.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-next-ul
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-next-ul  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-next-ul

@format
Move forward to the next ul.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-open-mark
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-open-mark  (name &optional delete)
@table @kbd
@item C-x r e
@kindex C-x r e
@end table

@findex emacspeak-eww-open-mark

@format
Open specified EWW marked location. If the content is already being
displayed in this Emacs session, jump to it directly. With optional
interactive prefix arg ‘delete’, delete that mark instead.

(fn NAME &optional DELETE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-phantom
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-phantom  (url)
@findex emacspeak-eww-phantom

@format
Retrieve ‘url’  using PhantomJS and render with EWW.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-element  (el)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-element

@format
Move backward  to the previous  specified element.

(fn EL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-element-from-history
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-element-from-history   
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-element-from-history

@format
Uses element navigation history to decide where we jump.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-element-like-this
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-element-like-this  (element)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-element-like-this

@format
Moves to next element like current.
Prompts if content at point is enclosed by multiple elements.

(fn ELEMENT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-h
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-h  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-h

@format
Move backward to the next h.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-h1
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-h1  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-h1

@format
Move backward to the next h1.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-h2
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-h2  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-h2

@format
Move backward to the next h2.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-h3
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-h3  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-h3

@format
Move backward to the next h3.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-h4
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-h4  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-h4

@format
Move backward to the next h4.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-h5
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-h5  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-h5

@format
Move backward to the next h5.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-h6
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-h6  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-h6

@format
Move backward to the next h6.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-li
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-li  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-li

@format
Move backward to the next li.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-ol
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-ol  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-ol

@format
Move backward to the next ol.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-p
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-p  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-p

@format
Move backward to the next p.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-table
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-table  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-table

@format
Move backward to the next table.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-previous-ul
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-previous-ul  (&optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-eww-previous-ul

@format
Move backward to the next ul.
Optional interactive prefix arg speaks the structural unit.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-restore
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-restore   
@findex emacspeak-eww-restore

@format
Restore buffer to pre-filtered canonical state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-speak-this-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-speak-this-element  (element)
@findex emacspeak-eww-speak-this-element

@format
Speaks  to next element like current.
Uses most recently navigated structural unit.
Otherwise, prompts if content at point is enclosed by multiple elements.

(fn ELEMENT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-tags-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-tags-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-eww-tags-at-point

@format
Display tags at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-transcode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-transcode   
@findex emacspeak-eww-transcode

@format
Apply appropriate transcoding rules to current DOM.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-eww-update-title
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-eww-update-title  (title)
@findex emacspeak-eww-update-title

@format
Interactively set title --- renames buffer, and sets header-line.

(fn TITLE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-eww Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-masquerade-as
User Agent string that is  sent when masquerading is on.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eww-silence-images
Set to nil if you want EWW to load images.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-facemenu
@section emacspeak-facemenu

Map standard faces such as bold and italic to voices.

@node emacspeak-feeds
@section emacspeak-feeds

This module provides Feeds support for Emacspeak

@subsection emacspeak-feeds Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-add-feed
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-add-feed  (title url type)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-u
@kindex C-e M-u
@item <fn> M-u
@kindex <fn> M-u
@end table

@findex emacspeak-feeds-add-feed

@format
Add specified feed to our feed store.

(fn TITLE URL TYPE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-archive-feeds
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-archive-feeds   
@findex emacspeak-feeds-archive-feeds

@format
Archive list of subscribed fees to personal resource directory.
Archiving is useful when synchronizing feeds across multiple machines.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-atom-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-atom-display  (feed-url)
@table @kbd
@item C-, a
@kindex C-, a
@item C-x @@ a a
@kindex C-x @@ a a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-feeds-atom-display

@format
Display ATOM feed.

(fn FEED-URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-browse
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-browse  (feed)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-u
@kindex C-e C-u
@item <fn> C-u
@kindex <fn> C-u
@end table

@findex emacspeak-feeds-browse

@format
Browse specified  feed.

(fn FEED)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-fastload-feeds
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-fastload-feeds   
@findex emacspeak-feeds-fastload-feeds

@format
Fast load list of feeds from archive.
This directly  updates emacspeak-feeds from the archive, rather than adding those entries to the current set of subscribed feeds.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-opml-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-opml-display  (feed-url)
@table @kbd
@item C-, o
@kindex C-, o
@item C-x @@ a o
@kindex C-x @@ a o
@end table

@findex emacspeak-feeds-opml-display

@format
Display OPML feed.

(fn FEED-URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-restore-feeds
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-restore-feeds   
@findex emacspeak-feeds-restore-feeds

@format
Restore list of subscribed fees from  personal resource directory.
Archiving is useful when synchronizing feeds across multiple machines.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-feeds-rss-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-feeds-rss-display  (feed-url)
@table @kbd
@item C-, r
@kindex C-, r
@item C-x @@ a r
@kindex C-x @@ a r
@end table

@findex emacspeak-feeds-rss-display

@format
Display RSS feed.

(fn FEED-URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-feeds Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-atom-view-xsl
XSL stylesheet used for viewing Atom Feeds.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-feeds
Table of RSS/Atom feeds.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-opml-view-xsl
XSL stylesheet used for viewing OPML  Feeds.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rss-view-xsl
XSL stylesheet used for viewing RSS Feeds.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-filtertext
@section emacspeak-filtertext

It is often useful  to view the results of filtering
large amounts of text.;;; Typically you do this with
various combinations of grep and friends.
When doing so it requires explicit effort to not destroy
the original text being filtered.
This module provides a textfilter utility that:
A) Copies over the selected text to a special filtertext
buffer
B) Implements a filtertext mode for that buffer that
allows easy application of filters
C: Provides commands for reverting to the original
unfiltered text
D: Provides commands for saving results from
intermediate filters.

@subsection emacspeak-filtertext Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-filtertext
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-filtertext  (start end)
@table @kbd
@item C-e ^
@kindex C-e ^
@item <fn> ^
@kindex <fn> ^
@end table

@findex emacspeak-filtertext

@format
Copy over text in region to special filtertext buffer in
preparation for interactively filtering text. 

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-filtertext-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-filtertext-mode   
@findex emacspeak-filtertext-mode

@format
Major mode for FilterText interaction. 

key             binding
---             -------

=		keep-lines
^		flush-lines
r		emacspeak-filtertext-revert

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘text-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-filtertext-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-filtertext-revert
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-filtertext-revert   
@findex emacspeak-filtertext-revert

@format
Revert to original text.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-find-dired
@section emacspeak-find-dired

find-dired is an emacs package for using UNIX find from emacs.
this module speech-enables find-dired

@node emacspeak-find-func
@section emacspeak-find-func

This module speech enables find-func

@node emacspeak-fix-interactive
@section emacspeak-fix-interactive

Emacs commands that use the 'interactive spec
to read interactive arguments are a problem for Emacspeak.
 This is because the prompting for the arguments is done from C
See (callint.c) in the Emacs sources.
Advising the various input functions,
e.g. read-file-name therefore will not help.
This module defines a function that solves this problem.
emacspeak-fix-commands-that-use-interactive needs to be called
To speech enable such functions.

@subsection emacspeak-fix-interactive Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-fix-all-recent-commands
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-fix-all-recent-commands   
@findex emacspeak-fix-all-recent-commands

@format
Fix recently loaded interactive commands.
This command looks through ‘load-history’ and fixes commands if necessary.
Memoizes call in emacspeak-load-history-pointer to memoize this call. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-fix-commands-loaded-from
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-fix-commands-loaded-from  (module)
@findex emacspeak-fix-commands-loaded-from

@format
Fix all commands loaded from a specified module.

(fn MODULE)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-flycheck
@section emacspeak-flycheck

FLYCHECK == On-the-fly checking.

@subsection emacspeak-flycheck Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-list-error-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error-list-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-list-highlight-at-point-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error-list-highlight-at-point
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-list-highlight-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error-list-highlight
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-list-highlightflycheck-error-list-column-number-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error-list-highlightflycheck-error-list-column-number
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-list-info-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error-list-info
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-list-line-number-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error-list-line-number
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-list-warning-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error-list-warning
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-error-voice
Personality used for flycheck-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-info-voice
Personality used for flycheck-info
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flycheck-warning-voice
Personality used for flycheck-warning
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-flyspell
@section emacspeak-flyspell

This module speech enables flyspell.
it loads flyspell-correct if available,
And when loading flyspell-correct sets up that module
to use  one of   three supported correction styles:
@itemize @bullet
@item ido: IDO-like completion with C-s and C-r moving through choices.
@item popup:Use  up and down arrows to move through  corrections.
@item helm: A helm interface for picking amongst  corrections.
@end itemize

Use Customization emacspeak-flyspell-correct-interface to pick
between ido, popup and helm.

@subsection emacspeak-flyspell Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flyspell-correct
Correction style to use with flyspell.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-folding
@section emacspeak-folding

Folding mode turns emacs into a folding editor.
Folding mode is what I use: 
emacs 19 comes with similar packages, e.g. allout.el
This module defines some advice forms that make folding mode a pleasure to use.
Think of a fold as a container. 

@node emacspeak-forms
@section emacspeak-forms

Provide additional advice to forms-mode 

@subsection emacspeak-forms Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-forms-find-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-forms-find-file  (filename)
@findex emacspeak-forms-find-file

@format
Visit a forms file

(fn FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-forms-flush-unwanted-records
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-forms-flush-unwanted-records   
@findex emacspeak-forms-flush-unwanted-records

@format
Prompt for pattern and flush matching lines
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-forms-rerun-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-forms-rerun-filter   
@findex emacspeak-forms-rerun-filter

@format
Rerun  filter --allows us to nuke more matching records
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-forms-speak-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-forms-speak-field   
@findex emacspeak-forms-speak-field

@format
Speak current form field name and value.
Assumes that point is at the front of a field value.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-position
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-position   
@findex emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-position

@format
Summarize current position in list of records
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-record
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-record   
@findex emacspeak-forms-summarize-current-record

@format
Summarize current record
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-forms Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-forms-ro-voice
Personality for read-only fields. 

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-forms-rw-voice
Personality for read-write fields. 

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ftf
@section emacspeak-ftf

FTF ==  find-things-fast
Package ftf --- find-things-fast -- is available from the marmalade emacs package archive

@node emacspeak-geiser
@section emacspeak-geiser

geiser.el --- GNU Emacs and Scheme talk to each other
This module speech-enables all interactive aspects of geiser,
including the geiser->scheme REPL.
This is used by racket-mode for racket interaction,
And also for interacting with Guile.

@subsection emacspeak-geiser Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-autodoc-current-arg
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-autodoc-current-arg
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-autodoc-identifier
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-autodoc-identifier
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-doc-button
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-doc-button
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-doc-link
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-doc-link
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-doc-title
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-doc-title
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-error-link
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-error-link
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-image-button
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-image-button
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-repl-input
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-repl-input
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-repl-prompt
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-repl-prompt
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-xref-header
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-xref-header
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-geiser-voice-lock-xref-link
Personality used for geiser-font-lock-xref-link
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-generic
@section emacspeak-generic

This module speech-enables generic.el so that modes
defined using  define-generic-mode get voice locking
support. Examples include apache-generic-mode and
friends defined in generic-x.el

@node emacspeak-gnuplot
@section emacspeak-gnuplot

This module speech-enables gnuplot-mode
an Emacs add-on that enables fluent interaction with
gnuplot.
Use gnuplot to generate plots of mathematical functions
for inclusion in documents.

@node emacspeak-gnus
@section emacspeak-gnus

This module advises gnus to speak. 
Updating support in 2014 (Emacspeak is nearly 20 years old)

@subsection emacspeak-gnus Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-gnus-summary-catchup-quietly-and-exit
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gnus-summary-catchup-quietly-and-exit   
@findex emacspeak-gnus-summary-catchup-quietly-and-exit

@format
Catch up on all articles in current group.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gnus-summary-hide-all-headers
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gnus-summary-hide-all-headers   
@findex emacspeak-gnus-summary-hide-all-headers

@format
Hide all headers in the article.
Use this command if you don’t want to listen to any article headers when
reading news.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gnus-summary-show-some-headers
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gnus-summary-show-some-headers   
@findex emacspeak-gnus-summary-show-some-headers

@format
Show only the important article headers,
i.e. sender name, and subject.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-gnus Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-large-article
*Articles having more than
emacspeak-gnus-large-article lines will be considered to be a large article.
A large article is not spoken all at once;
instead you hear only the first screenful.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-punctuation-mode
Pronunciation mode to use for gnus buffers.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-go-mode
@section emacspeak-go-mode

GO-MODE ==  Go Language support in emacs

@node emacspeak-gomoku
@section emacspeak-gomoku

Auditory interface to gomoku

@subsection emacspeak-gomoku Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-display-statistics
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-display-statistics   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-display-statistics

@format
Display statistics from previous games
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-goto-x-y
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-goto-x-y  (x y)
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-goto-x-y

@format
Prompt for and go to that square.

(fn X Y)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-column   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-column

@format
Aurally display current column
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-negative-diagonal
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-negative-diagonal   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-negative-diagonal

@format
Aurally display current negative sloped diagonal 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-positive-diagonal
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-positive-diagonal   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-positive-diagonal

@format
Aurally display current positively sloped diagonal
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-row   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-show-current-row

@format
Aurally display current row
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-speak-emacs-previous-move
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-emacs-previous-move   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-speak-emacs-previous-move

@format
Speak emacs’ previous move
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-speak-humans-previous-move
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-humans-previous-move   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-speak-humans-previous-move

@format
Speak human’ previous move
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-speak-number-of-moves
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-number-of-moves   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-speak-number-of-moves

@format
Speak number of moves so far
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gomoku-speak-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gomoku-speak-square   
@findex emacspeak-gomoku-speak-square

@format
Speak coordinates and state of square at point
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-google
@section emacspeak-google

There are a number of search tools that can be implemented on
the Google search page --- in a JS-powered browser, these
show up as the Google tool-belt.
This module implements a minor mode for use in Google result
pages that enables these tools via single keyboard commands.
Originally all options were available as tbs=p:v
Now, some specialized searches, e.g. blog search are tbm=

@subsection emacspeak-google Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-show-toolbelt
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-show-toolbelt   
@findex emacspeak-google-show-toolbelt

@format
Reload search page with toolbelt showing.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-sign-in
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-sign-in   
@findex emacspeak-google-sign-in

@format
Sign in to Google.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-sign-out
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-sign-out   
@findex emacspeak-google-sign-out

@format
Sign out to Google.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change

@format
Command to change values in the toolbelt and execute the query.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-Shopping
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-Shopping   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-Shopping

@format
Change  Shopping in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-blog
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-blog   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-blog

@format
Change  blog in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books

@format
Change  books in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-format
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-format   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-format

@format
Change  books-format in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-type
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-type   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-type

@format
Change  books-type in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-viewability
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-viewability   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-books-viewability

@format
Change  books-viewability in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-commercial
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-commercial   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-commercial

@format
Change  commercial in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-commercial-prices
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-commercial-prices   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-commercial-prices

@format
Change  commercial-prices in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-date-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-date-filter   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-date-filter

@format
Change  date-filter in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-forums
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-forums   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-forums

@format
Change  forums in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-group-discussions
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-group-discussions   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-group-discussions

@format
Change  group-discussions in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-images
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-images   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-images

@format
Change  images in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-in-depth
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-in-depth   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-in-depth

@format
Change  in-depth in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-literal
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-literal   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-literal

@format
Change  literal in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-news
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-news   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-news

@format
Change  news in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-non-commercial
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-non-commercial   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-non-commercial

@format
Change  non-commercial in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-patents
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-patents   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-patents

@format
Change  patents in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-places
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-places   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-places

@format
Change  places in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-recent
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-recent   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-recent

@format
Change  recent in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-recipes
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-recipes   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-recipes

@format
Change  recipes in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-reviews
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-reviews   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-reviews

@format
Change  reviews in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-social
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-social   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-social

@format
Change  social in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-sort-by-date
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-sort-by-date   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-sort-by-date

@format
Change  sort-by-date in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-structured-snippets
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-structured-snippets   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-structured-snippets

@format
Change  structured-snippets in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline

@format
Change  timeline in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline-high
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline-high   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline-high

@format
Change  timeline-high in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline-low
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline-low   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-timeline-low

@format
Change  timeline-low in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-video
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-video   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-video

@format
Change  video in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-video-duration
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-video-duration   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-video-duration

@format
Change  video-duration in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-web-history-not-visited
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-web-history-not-visited   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-web-history-not-visited

@format
Change  web-history-not-visited in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-web-history-visited
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-web-history-visited   
@findex emacspeak-google-toolbelt-change-web-history-visited

@format
Change  web-history-visited in the currently active toolbelt.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-tts
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-tts  (text &optional lang)
@findex emacspeak-google-tts

@format
Speak text using Google Network TTS.

(fn TEXT &optional LANG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-google-tts-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-google-tts-region  (start end)
@findex emacspeak-google-tts-region

@format
Speak region using Google Network TTS.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-google Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-google-tts-default-language
Default language used for Google TTS.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-gridtext
@section emacspeak-gridtext

Emacspeak's table browsing mode allows one to
efficiently access  content that is tabular in nature.
That module also provides functions for inferring table
structure where possible.
Often, such structure is hard to infer automatically
--but might be known to the user 
e.g. treat columns 1 through 30 as one column of a table
and so on.
This module allows the user to specify a conceptual grid
that is "overlaid" on the region of text to turn it into
a table for tabular browsing. For now, elements of the
grid are "one line" high --but that may change in the
future if necessary. This module is useful for browsing
structured text files and the output from programs that
tabulate their output.
It's also useful for handling multicolumn text.

@subsection emacspeak-gridtext Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-gridtext-apply
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gridtext-apply  (start end grid)
@table @kbd
@item C-e # a
@kindex C-e # a
@item <fn> # a
@kindex <fn> # a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-gridtext-apply

@format
Apply grid to region.

(fn START END GRID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gridtext-load
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gridtext-load  (file)
@table @kbd
@item C-e # l
@kindex C-e # l
@item <fn> # l
@kindex <fn> # l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-gridtext-load

@format
Load saved grid settings.

(fn FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-gridtext-save
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-gridtext-save  (file)
@table @kbd
@item C-e # s
@kindex C-e # s
@item <fn> # s
@kindex <fn> # s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-gridtext-save

@format
Save out grid settings.

(fn FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-gtags
@section emacspeak-gtags

GTAGS ==  Emacs support for GNU global.
GNU  global implements  a modern tags solution
Package gtags interfaces Emacs to this tool.

@node emacspeak-gud
@section emacspeak-gud

Provide additional advice to ease debugger interaction with gud

@node emacspeak-helm
@section emacspeak-helm

HELM ==  Smart narrowing/selection in emacs
This module speech-enables Helm interaction.
See tvr/helm-prepare.el in the GitHub repository for my  helm setup.
that file provides convenient emacspeak-centric keybindings for Helm interaction.

@node emacspeak-hide
@section emacspeak-hide

Flexible hide and show for emacspeak.
This module allows one to easily hide or expose
blocks of lines starting with a common prefix.
It is motivated by the need to flexibly hide quoted text in email
but is designed to be more general.
the prefix parsing is inspired by filladapt.el

@subsection emacspeak-hide Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-hide-or-expose-all-blocks
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-hide-or-expose-all-blocks   
@findex emacspeak-hide-or-expose-all-blocks

@format
Hide or expose all blocks in buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e j
@kindex C-e j
@item <fn> j
@kindex <fn> j
@end table

@findex emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block

@format
Hide or expose a block of text.
This command either hides or exposes a block of text
starting on the current line.  A block of text is defined as
a portion of the buffer in which all lines start with a
common PREFIX.  Optional interactive prefix arg causes all
blocks in current buffer to be hidden or exposed.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-hide-speak-block-sans-prefix
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-hide-speak-block-sans-prefix   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-j
@kindex C-e C-j
@item <fn> C-j
@kindex <fn> C-j
@end table

@findex emacspeak-hide-speak-block-sans-prefix

@format
Speaks current block after stripping its prefix.
If the current block is not hidden, it first hides it.
This is useful because as you locate blocks, you can invoke this
command to listen to the block,
and when you have heard enough navigate easily  to move past the block.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-hide Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hidden-header-line-personality
Personality used to identify header lines of blocks.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-hideshow
@section emacspeak-hideshow

speech-enable hideshow.el

@node emacspeak-hydra
@section emacspeak-hydra

Speech-enable package hydra:
For  uses of hydra see module @xref{emacspeak-muggles}.

@subsection emacspeak-hydra Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-hydra-toggle-talkative
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-hydra-toggle-talkative   
@findex emacspeak-hydra-toggle-talkative

@format
Toggle state of hydra-is-helpful
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ibuffer
@section emacspeak-ibuffer

speech-enable ibuffer.el
this is an alternative to buffer-menu

@subsection emacspeak-ibuffer Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-ibuffer-speak-buffer-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ibuffer-speak-buffer-line   
@findex emacspeak-ibuffer-speak-buffer-line

@format
Speak information about this buffer
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-ido
@section emacspeak-ido

speech-enable ido.el
This is an interesting task since most of the value-add
provided by package ido.el  is visual feedback.
Speech UI Challenge: What  is the most efficient means of
conveying a dynamically updating set of choices?
current strategy is to walk the list using c-s and c-r as
provided by ido
Set number matches shown to 3 using Custom so you dont hear
the entire list.

@node emacspeak-imenu
@section emacspeak-imenu

Speech enable imenu and provide other useful navigation commands.

@subsection emacspeak-imenu Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-imenu-goto-next-index-position
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-imenu-goto-next-index-position   
@findex emacspeak-imenu-goto-next-index-position

@format
Goto the next index position in current buffer
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-imenu-goto-previous-index-position
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-imenu-goto-previous-index-position   
@findex emacspeak-imenu-goto-previous-index-position

@format
Goto the previous index position in current buffer
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-imenu-speak-this-section
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-imenu-speak-this-section   
@findex emacspeak-imenu-speak-this-section

@format
Speak upto start of next index entry
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-indium
@section emacspeak-indium

INDIUM ==  Javascript IDE 
This module speech-enables Indium.

@subsection emacspeak-indium Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-button-personality
Personality used for indium-button-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-header-personality
Personality used for indium-header-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-highlight-personality
Personality used for indium-highlight-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-keyword-personality
Personality used for indium-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-link-personality
Personality used for indium-link-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-repl-error-personality
Personality used for indium-repl-error-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-repl-prompt-personality
Personality used for indium-repl-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-indium-repl-stdout-personality
Personality used for indium-repl-stdout-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-info
@section emacspeak-info

This module speech-enables the Emacs Info Reader.

@subsection emacspeak-info Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-info-next-section
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-info-next-section   
@findex emacspeak-info-next-section

@format
Move forward to next section in this node.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-info-previous-section
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-info-previous-section   
@findex emacspeak-info-previous-section

@format
Move backward to previous section in this node.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-info-speak-header
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-info-speak-header   
@findex emacspeak-info-speak-header

@format
Speak info header line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-info-wizard
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-info-wizard  (node-spec)
@table @kbd
@item C-h TAB
@kindex C-h TAB
@item <f1> TAB
@kindex <f1> TAB
@item <help> TAB
@kindex <help> TAB
@end table

@findex emacspeak-info-wizard

@format
Read a node spec from the minibuffer and launch
Info-goto-node.
See documentation for command ‘Info-goto-node’ for details on
node-spec.

(fn NODE-SPEC)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-info Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-select-node-speak-chunk
*Specifies how much of the selected node gets spoken.
Possible values are:
screenfull  -- speak the displayed screen
node -- speak the entire node.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ispell
@section emacspeak-ispell

This module speech enables ispell.
Implementation note: This is hard because of how  ispell.el is written
Namely, all of the work is done by one huge hairy function.
This makes advising it hard.
The ispell commands work well with Emacspeak as long as the list of correction choices are few.
For interactively moving through corrections, install package flyspell-correct from MELPA
(package-install "flyspell-correct")
Then use M-x flyspell-mode.
Package flyspell is speech-enabled by Emacspeak module emacspeak-flyspell
And that module sets up flyspell-correct to use IDO-style completion,
i.e. you can move through corrections with C-r and C-s.

@subsection emacspeak-ispell Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ispell-max-choices
Emacspeak will not speak the choices if there are more than this
many available corrections.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ivy
@section emacspeak-ivy

IVY ==  One More Smart Completion Technique 
Speech-enable ivy-style completion.
This is still experimental and preliminary.

@subsection emacspeak-ivy Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-action-voice
Personality used for ivy-action
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-confirm-personality
Personality used for ivy-confirm-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-current-match-voice
Personality used for ivy-current-match
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-cursor-voice
Personality used for ivy-cursor
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-match-required-personality
Personality used for ivy-match-required-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-minibuffer-match-face-1-voice
Personality used for ivy-minibuffer-match-face-1
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-minibuffer-match-face-2-voice
Personality used for ivy-minibuffer-match-face-2
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-minibuffer-match-face-3-voice
Personality used for ivy-minibuffer-match-face-3
This personality uses  voice-monotone-light whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-light-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-minibuffer-match-face-4-voice
Personality used for ivy-minibuffer-match-face-4
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-modified-buffer-voice
Personality used for ivy-modified-buffer
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-remote-voice
Personality used for ivy-remote
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-subdir-voice
Personality used for ivy-subdir
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ivy-virtual-voice
Personality used for ivy-virtual
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-jabber
@section emacspeak-jabber

emacs-jabber.el implements a  jabber client for emacs
emacs-jabber is hosted at sourceforge.
I use emacs-jabber with my gmail.com account

@subsection emacspeak-jabber Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-jabber-chat-next-message
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-jabber-chat-next-message   
@findex emacspeak-jabber-chat-next-message

@format
Move forward to and speak the next message in this chat
session.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-jabber-chat-previous-message
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-jabber-chat-previous-message   
@findex emacspeak-jabber-chat-previous-message

@format
Move backward to and speak the previous message in this chat
session.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-jabber-chat-speak-this-message
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-jabber-chat-speak-this-message   
@findex emacspeak-jabber-chat-speak-this-message

@format
Speaks message starting on current line.
Assumes point is at the front of the message.
Returns a cons (start . end) that delimits the message.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-jabber-popup-roster
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-jabber-popup-roster   
@table @kbd
@item C-e x j
@kindex C-e x j
@item <fn> x j
@kindex <fn> x j
@end table

@findex emacspeak-jabber-popup-roster

@format
Pop to Jabber roster.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-jabber Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-speak-presence-alerts
Set to T if you want to hear presence alerts.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-jde
@section emacspeak-jde

Speech enable Java IDE.
The Java IDE --JDE-- can be found at 
http://sunsite.auc.dk/jde/

@subsection emacspeak-jde Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-api-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-api-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-bold-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-bold-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-code-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-code-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-constant-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-constant-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-italic-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-italic-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-number-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-number-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-operator-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-operator-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-package-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-package-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-pre-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-pre-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jde-java-voice-lock-underline-personality
Personality used for jde-java-font-lock-underline-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-js2
@section emacspeak-js2

JS2-mode http://js2-mode.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
is a new, powerful Emacs mode for working with JavaScript.
This module speech-enables js2.

@node emacspeak-jss
@section emacspeak-jss

jss connects Emacs to browsers that support the webkit debugging protocol.
You can use this to connect to a running Chrome or Firefox.
Make sure to start chrome with the correct command-line flag: e.g., on Linux:
google-chrome --remote-debugging-port=9222
You can get  Emacs package jss from here:
url = git://github.com/segv/jss.git
Make sure to first install the websocket package from elpa.
This package speech-enables jss for Emacspeak users.
This is what I use alongside package Kite at present when developing/debugging ChromeVox.
ChromeVox == http://google-axs-chrome.googlecode.com
http://chromevox.com

@subsection emacspeak-jss Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-button-personality
Personality used for jss-button-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-console-debug-message-voice
Personality used for jss-console-debug-message
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-console-error-message-voice
Personality used for jss-console-error-message
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-console-log-message-voice
Personality used for jss-console-log-message
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-console-warn-message-voice
Personality used for jss-console-warn-message
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-http-repl-meta-data-personality
Personality used for jss-http-repl-meta-data-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-http-repl-submitted-personality
Personality used for jss-http-repl-submitted-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jss-script-line-marker-personality
Personality used for jss-script-line-marker-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-keymap
@section emacspeak-keymap

This module defines the emacspeak keybindings.
Note that the <fn> key found on laptops is denoted <fn>

@subsection emacspeak-keymap Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-keymap-bindings-from-org
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-keymap-bindings-from-org  (variable filename)
@findex emacspeak-keymap-bindings-from-org

@format
Load bindings from a specified file.

(fn VARIABLE FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-keymap-bindings-to-org
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-keymap-bindings-to-org  (variable filename)
@findex emacspeak-keymap-bindings-to-org

@format
Persists mapping to org file.

(fn VARIABLE FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-keymap-choose-new-emacspeak-prefix
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-keymap-choose-new-emacspeak-prefix  (prefix-key)
@findex emacspeak-keymap-choose-new-emacspeak-prefix

@format
Interactively select a new prefix key to use for all emacspeak
commands.  The default is to use ‘C-e’  This command
lets you switch the prefix to something else.  This is a useful thing
to do if you run emacspeak on a remote machine from inside a terminal
that is running inside a local emacspeak session.  You can have the
remote emacspeak use a different control key to give your fingers some
relief.

(fn PREFIX-KEY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-keymap Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-alt-keys
*Specifies alt key bindings for the audio desktop. You can turn the
‘Pause’ key on your Linux PC keyboard into a ‘alt’ key on Linux by
having it emit the sequence ‘C-x@@a’.

Bindings specified here are available on prefix key ‘alt’ (not to be
 confused with alt==meta) for example, if you bind ‘s’ to command
 emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart then that command will be available
 on key ‘ALT s’

KEYS should be a string constant in the format used for saving
keyboard macros (see ‘edmacro-mode’).

Command is an interactive command or a prefix-command that can be
bound to a key.

The value of this variable is an association list. The car of each
element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies an interactive
command that the key sequence executes.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hyper-keys
*Specifies hyper key bindings for the audio desktop. Emacs can
use the ‘hyper’ key as a modifier key. You can turn the ‘windows’
keys on your Linux PC keyboard into a ‘hyper’ key on Linux by
having it emit the sequence ‘C-x@@h’.

Bindings specified here are available on prefix key ‘hyper’ for
example, if you bind ‘b’ to command ‘bbdb ’ then that command
will be available on key ‘hyper b’.

KEYS should be a string constant in the format used for saving
keyboard macros (see ‘edmacro-mode’).

Command is an interactive command or a prefix-command that can be
bound to a key. 

The value of this variable is an association list. The car of
each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies an
interactive command that the key sequence executes.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personal-ctlx-keys
*Specifies personal-ctlx key bindings for use with C-e C-x for
the audio desktop. Bindings specified here are available on
prefix key C-e C-x for example, if you bind ‘C-s’ to command
emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart then that command will be
available on key C-e C-x C-s. KEYS should be a string constant in
the format used for saving keyboard macros (see ‘edmacro-mode’).

Command is an interactive command or a prefix-command that can be
bound to a key.

The value of this variable is an association list. The car of
each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies an
interactive command that the key sequence executes.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personal-keys
*Specifies personal key bindings for the audio desktop.
Bindings specified here are available on prefix key C-e x
for example, if you bind
‘s’ to command emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart
then that command will be available on key C-e x s.

KEYS should be a string constant in the format used for saving
keyboard macros (see ‘edmacro-mode’).

Command is an interactive command or a prefix-command that can be
bound to a key. 

The value of this variable is an association list. The car of
each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies an
interactive command that the key sequence executes.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-super-keys
*Specifies super key bindings for the audio desktop. You can
turn the right ‘windows menu’ keys on your Linux PC keyboard into
a ‘super’ key on Linux by having it emit the sequence ‘C-x@@s’.

Bindings specified here are available on prefix key ‘super’ for
example, if you bind ‘s’ to command
emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart then that command will be
available on key ‘super s’. KEYS should be a string constant in
the format used for saving keyboard macros (see ‘edmacro-mode’).

Command is an interactive command or a prefix-command that can be
bound to a key.

The value of this variable is an association list. The car of
each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies an
interactive command that the key sequence executes.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-kite
@section emacspeak-kite

kite connects Emacs to browsers that support the webkit debugging protocol.
You can use this to connect to a running Chrome
Make sure to start chrome with the correct command-line flag: e.g., on Linux:
google-chrome --remote-debugging-port=9222
You can get  Emacs package kite from here:
git clone git://github.com/jscheid/kite
Make sure to first install the websocket package from elpa.
This package speech-enables kite for Emacspeak users.
This is what I use at present when developing/debugging ChromeVox.
ChromeVox == http://google-axs-chrome.googlecode.com
http://chromevox.com

@subsection emacspeak-kite Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-boolean-voice
Personality used for kite-boolean
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-console-prompt-personality
Personality used for kite-console-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-loading-voice
Personality used for kite-loading
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-log-debug-voice
Personality used for kite-log-debug
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-log-error-voice
Personality used for kite-log-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-log-log-voice
Personality used for kite-log-log
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-log-warning-voice
Personality used for kite-log-warning
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-null-voice
Personality used for kite-null
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-number-voice
Personality used for kite-number
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-object-voice
Personality used for kite-object
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-property-name-voice
Personality used for kite-property-name
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-proto-property-name-voice
Personality used for kite-proto-property-name
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-quote-voice
Personality used for kite-quote
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-stack-column-number-voice
Personality used for kite-stack-column-number
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-stack-error-message-voice
Personality used for kite-stack-error-message
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-stack-error-type-voice
Personality used for kite-stack-error-type
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-stack-file-name-voice
Personality used for kite-stack-file-name
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-stack-function-name-voice
Personality used for kite-stack-function-name
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-stack-line-number-voice
Personality used for kite-stack-line-number
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-stack-pseudo-file-name-voice
Personality used for kite-stack-pseudo-file-name
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-string-voice
Personality used for kite-string
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-kite-undefined-voice
Personality used for kite-undefined
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-kmacro
@section emacspeak-kmacro

speech-enables kmacro --- a kbd macro interface

@node emacspeak-librivox
@section emacspeak-librivox

LIBRIVOX == http://www.librivox.org Free Audio Books
API Info: https://librivox.org/api/info
It provides a simple Web  API
This module implements an Emacspeak Librivox client.

@subsection Usage

main entry point is command @code{emacspeak-librivox} bound to @kbd{C-; l}.
This prompts with the following choices:
@itemize
@item @kbd{a} Author --- Search  by Author.
@item @kbd{t} Title --- Search  by Title.
@item @kbd{g} Genre --- Search  by Genre --- with minibuffer completion.
@item @kbd{p} Play --- Play a  book.
@item @kbd{d} Directory --- Browse local cache.
@end itemize

Search results are displayed in a Web page that provides controls
for accessing the book.

@subsection emacspeak-librivox Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-librivox
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-librivox  (search-type)
@table @kbd
@item C-; l
@kindex C-; l
@item C-x @@ h l
@kindex C-x @@ h l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-librivox

@format
Launch a Librivox Search.

(fn SEARCH-TYPE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-librivox-play
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-librivox-play  (rss-url)
@findex emacspeak-librivox-play

@format
Play book stream

(fn RSS-URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-librivox-search-by-author
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-librivox-search-by-author  (author &optional offset)
@findex emacspeak-librivox-search-by-author

@format
Search by author. Both exact and partial matches for
‘author’. Optional interactive prefix arg ‘offset’ prompts for offset
--- use this for retrieving next set of results.

(fn AUTHOR &optional OFFSET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-librivox-search-by-genre
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-librivox-search-by-genre  (genre &optional offset)
@findex emacspeak-librivox-search-by-genre

@format
Search by genre.
Optional prefix arg ‘offset’ prompts for offset.

(fn GENRE &optional OFFSET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-librivox-search-by-title
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-librivox-search-by-title  (title &optional offset)
@findex emacspeak-librivox-search-by-title

@format
Search by title. Both exact and partial matches for ‘title’. Optional
prefix arg ‘offset’ prompts for offset --- use this for retrieving
more results.

(fn TITLE &optional OFFSET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-librivox Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-librivox-local-cache
Location where we cache LIBRIVOX playlists.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-lua
@section emacspeak-lua

LUA == lua-mode
Speech-enable lua-mode.

@node emacspeak-m-player
@section emacspeak-m-player

Defines an Emacspeak front-end for interacting with @code{mplayer}.
Program @code{mplayer}  is a versatile media player capable of playing many
streaming media formats.
This module provides complete access to all @code{mplayer} functionality
from a convenient Emacs interface.

@subsection Usage

The main entry-point is command @code{emacspeak-multimedia}
bound to @kbd{C-e ;}.
This prompts for and launches the desired media stream.
Once a stream is playing, you can control it with single-letter keystrokes
in the @code{*M-Player*} buffer.
Alternatively, you can switch away from that buffer to do real work,
And invoke @code{m-player} commands by  first pressing @kbd{C-e ;}.
As an example, pressing @kbd{v} in the @code{*M-Player*} buffer
prompts for and sets the volume;
When not in the @code{*M-Player*} buffer, you can achieve the same
by pressing @kbd{C-e ; v}.
Press @kbd{C-h b} in the @code{*M-Player*}
buffer  to list  @code{m-player} keybindings.

@subsection emacspeak-m-player Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player  (resource &optional play-list)
@findex emacspeak-m-player

@format
Play specified resource using m-player.  Optional prefix argument
play-list interprets resource as a play-list.  Second interactive
prefix arg adds option -allow-dangerous-playlist-parsing to mplayer.
Resource is a media resource or playlist containing media resources.
The player is placed in a buffer in emacspeak-m-player-mode.

(fn RESOURCE &optional PLAY-LIST)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-add-autopan
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-add-autopan   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-add-autopan

@format
Add predefined autopan effect.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-add-equalizer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-add-equalizer  (&optional reset)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-add-equalizer

@format
Add equalizer to playing stream.  Equalizer is updated as each change
is made, and the final effect set by pressing RET.  Interactive prefix
arg ‘reset’ starts with all filters set to 0.

(fn &optional RESET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-add-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-add-filter  (filter-name)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-add-filter

@format
Adds specified filter.

(fn FILTER-NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-add-ladspa
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-add-ladspa   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-add-ladspa

@format
Apply plugin to running MPlayer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-alt-src-step
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-alt-src-step  (step)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-alt-src-step

@format
Move within an ASF playlist.

(fn STEP)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-amark-add
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-amark-add  (name &optional prompt-position)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-amark-add

@format
Set AMark ‘name’ at current position in current audio stream.
Interactive prefix arg prompts for position.
As the default, use current position.

(fn NAME &optional PROMPT-POSITION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-amark-jump
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-amark-jump   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-amark-jump

@format
Jump to specified AMark.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-apply-reverb-preset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-apply-reverb-preset  (preset)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-apply-reverb-preset

@format
Prompt for a predefined reverb preset and apply it.
You need to use mplayer built with ladspa support, and have package
tap-reverb already installed.

(fn PRESET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-backward-10min
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-backward-10min   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-backward-10min

@format
Move backward by ten minutes.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s

@format
Move back by 10 seconds.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min

@format
Move back by 1 minute.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-balance
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-balance   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-balance

@format
Set left/right balance.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-beginning-of-track
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-beginning-of-track   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-beginning-of-track

@format
Move to beginning of track.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-bind-accelerator
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-bind-accelerator  (directory key)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-bind-accelerator

@format
Binds key to invoke m-player  on specified directory.

(fn DIRECTORY KEY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-clear-filters
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-clear-filters   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-clear-filters

@format
Clear all active filters
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-command
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-command  (key)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-command

@format
Invoke MPlayer commands.

(fn KEY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-customize-options
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-customize-options   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-customize-options

@format
Use Customize to manipulate MPlayer options.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-delete-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-delete-filter  (filter)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-delete-filter

@format
Delete filter.

(fn FILTER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-delete-ladspa
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-delete-ladspa   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-delete-ladspa

@format
Delete plugin from  running MPlayer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-display-metadata
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-display-metadata   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-display-metadata

@format
Display metadata after refreshing it if needed.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-display-percent
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-display-percent   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-display-percent

@format
Display current percentage.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-display-position
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-display-position   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-display-position

@format
Display current position in track and its length.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-double-speed
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-double-speed   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-double-speed

@format
Scale speed by 2.0
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-edit-reverb
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-edit-reverb   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-edit-reverb

@format
Edit  current ladspa reverb filter.
See option emacspeak-m-player-reverb-filter to customize reverb filter values.
You need to use mplayer built with ladspa support, and have package
tap-reverb already installed.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-end-of-track
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-end-of-track   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-end-of-track

@format
Move to beginning of track.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-equalizer-control
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-equalizer-control  (v)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-equalizer-control

@format
Manipulate values in specified vector using minibuffer.
Applies  the resulting value at each step.

(fn V)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-faster
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-faster   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-faster

@format
Speed up  playback.
This affects pitch.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-forward-10min
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-forward-10min   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-forward-10min

@format
Move forward by ten minutes.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s

@format
Move forward by 10 seconds.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min

@format
Move forward by 1 minute.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-get-length
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-get-length   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-get-length

@format
Display length of track in seconds.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-half-speed
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-half-speed   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-half-speed

@format
Scale speed by 0.5.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-left-channel
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-left-channel   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-left-channel

@format
Play both channels on left channel.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-load
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-load  (resource &optional append)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-load

@format
Load specified resource into a running  m-player.
Interactive prefix arg appends the new resource to what is playing.

(fn RESOURCE &optional APPEND)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-load-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-load-file  (f)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-load-file

@format
Load specified file.

(fn F)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-load-playlist
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-load-playlist  (f)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-load-playlist

@format
Load specified playlist file.

(fn F)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-locate-media
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-locate-media  (pattern)
@table @kbd
@item C-' l
@kindex C-' l
@item C-x @@ s l
@kindex C-x @@ s l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-m-player-locate-media

@format
Locate media matching specified pattern.
Results are placed in a Locate buffer and can be played using M-Player.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-mode   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-mode

@format
Major mode for m-player interaction. 

key             binding
---             -------

C-l		ladspa
RET		emacspeak-m-player-load
ESC		Prefix Command
SPC		emacspeak-m-player-pause
%		emacspeak-m-player-display-percent
(		emacspeak-m-player-left-channel
)		emacspeak-m-player-right-channel
+		emacspeak-m-player-volume-up
,		emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s
-		emacspeak-m-player-volume-down
.		emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s
/		emacspeak-m-player-restore-process
1 .. 9		emacspeak-m-player-volume-set
;		emacspeak-m-player-pop-to-player
<		emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min
=		emacspeak-m-player-volume-up
>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min
?		emacspeak-m-player-display-position
A		emacspeak-m-player-amark-add
C		emacspeak-m-player-clear-filters
E		amixer-equalize
G		emacspeak-m-player-seek-percentage
L		emacspeak-m-player-locate-media
M		emacspeak-m-player-display-metadata
O		emacspeak-m-player-reset-options
P		emacspeak-m-player-apply-reverb-preset
Q		emacspeak-m-player-quit
R		emacspeak-m-player-edit-reverb
S		emacspeak-amark-save
[		emacspeak-m-player-slower
\		emacspeak-m-player-persist-process
]		emacspeak-m-player-faster
a		emacspeak-m-player-add-autopan
b		emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-m-player-mode
c		emacspeak-m-player-slave-command
d		emacspeak-m-player-delete-filter
e		emacspeak-m-player-add-equalizer
f		emacspeak-m-player-add-filter
g		emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute
i		emacspeak-m-player-stream-info
j		emacspeak-m-player-amark-jump
k		emacspeak-m-player-quit
l		emacspeak-m-player-get-length
m		emacspeak-m-player-speak-mode-line
n		emacspeak-m-player-next-track
o		emacspeak-m-player-customize-options
p		emacspeak-m-player-previous-track
q		bury-buffer
r		emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative
s		emacspeak-m-player-scale-speed
t		emacspeak-m-player-play-tracks-jump
u		emacspeak-m-player-url
v		emacspeak-m-player-volume-change
x		emacspeak-m-player-pan
@{		emacspeak-m-player-half-speed
@}		emacspeak-m-player-double-speed
DEL		emacspeak-m-player-reset-speed
<down>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min
<end>		emacspeak-m-player-end-of-track
<home>		emacspeak-m-player-beginning-of-track
<left>		emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s
<next>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-10min
<prior>		emacspeak-m-player-backward-10min
<right>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s
<up>		emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min

M-l		emacspeak-m-player-load-playlist

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘comint-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-m-player-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-next-track
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-next-track   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-next-track

@format
Move to next track.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-pan
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-pan   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-pan

@format
Pan from left to right   and back from right to left one step at a time.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-pause
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-pause   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-pause

@format
Pause or unpause media player.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-persist-process
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-persist-process  (&optional name)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-persist-process

@format
Persists current m-player process instance by renaming its buffer.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for name to use for  player.

(fn &optional NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-play-rss
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-play-rss  (rss-url)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-play-rss

@format
Play an RSS stream by converting to  an M3U playlist.

(fn RSS-URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-play-tracks-jump
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-play-tracks-jump  (step)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-play-tracks-jump

@format
Move within the play tree.

(fn STEP)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-play-tree-up
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-play-tree-up  (step)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-play-tree-up

@format
Move within the play tree.

(fn STEP)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-pop-to-player
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-pop-to-player   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-pop-to-player

@format
Pop to m-player buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-previous-track
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-previous-track   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-previous-track

@format
Move to previous track.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-quit
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-quit   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-quit

@format
Quit media player.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-reset-options
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-reset-options   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-reset-options

@format
Reset MPlayer options to initial defaults.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-reset-speed
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-reset-speed   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-reset-speed

@format
Reset playing speed to normal.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-restore-process
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-restore-process   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-restore-process

@format
Restore emacspeak-m-player-process from current buffer.
Check first if current buffer is in emacspeak-m-player-mode.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-right-channel
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-right-channel   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-right-channel

@format
Play on right channel.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-scale-speed
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-scale-speed  (factor)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-scale-speed

@format
Scale speed by specified factor.

(fn FACTOR)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute  (position)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute

@format
Seek  to absolute specified position in seconds.

(fn POSITION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-seek-percentage
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-seek-percentage  (position)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-seek-percentage

@format
Seek  to absolute specified position in percent.

(fn POSITION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative  (offset)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative

@format
Seek  by offset into stream from current position.

(fn OFFSET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-shuffle
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-shuffle   
@table @kbd
@item C-e :
@kindex C-e :
@item <fn> :
@kindex <fn> :
@end table

@findex emacspeak-m-player-shuffle

@format
Launch M-Player with shuffle turned on.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-slave-command
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-slave-command  (command)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-slave-command

@format
Dispatch slave command read from minibuffer.

(fn COMMAND)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-slower
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-slower   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-slower

@format
Slow down playback.
This affects pitch.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-speak-mode-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-speak-mode-line   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-speak-mode-line

@format
Speak mode line
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-stream-info
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-stream-info  (&optional toggle-cue)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-stream-info

@format
Speak and display metadata if available.
Interactive prefix arg toggles automatic cueing of ICY info updates.

(fn &optional TOGGLE-CUE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-url
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-url  (url &optional playlist-p)
@table @kbd
@item C-, u
@kindex C-, u
@item C-x @@ a u
@kindex C-x @@ a u
@end table

@findex emacspeak-m-player-url

@format
Call emacspeak-m-player with specified URL.

(fn URL &optional PLAYLIST-P)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-using-hrtf
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-using-hrtf   
@table @kbd
@item C-; '
@kindex C-; '
@item C-x @@ h '
@kindex C-x @@ h '
@end table

@findex emacspeak-m-player-using-hrtf

@format
Add af resample=48000,hrtf to startup options.
This will work if the soundcard is set to 48000.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-using-openal
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-using-openal  (resource &optional play-list)
@table @kbd
@item C-; ;
@kindex C-; ;
@item C-x @@ h ;
@kindex C-x @@ h ;
@end table

@findex emacspeak-m-player-using-openal

@format
Use openal as the audio output driver. Adding hrtf=true to
~/.alsoftrc gives HRTF. You need to have openal installed and have an
mplayer that has been compiled with openal support to use this
feature. Calling spec is like ‘emacspeak-m-player’.

(fn RESOURCE &optional PLAY-LIST)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-volume-change
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-volume-change  (value)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-volume-change

@format
Change volume to specified absolute value.

(fn VALUE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-volume-down
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-volume-down   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-volume-down

@format
Decrease volume.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-volume-set
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-volume-set  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-volume-set

@format
Set Volume in steps from 1 to 9.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-volume-up
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-volume-up   
@findex emacspeak-m-player-volume-up

@format
Increase volume.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-m-player-youtube-player
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-m-player-youtube-player  (url)
@findex emacspeak-m-player-youtube-player

@format
Use youtube-dl and mplayer to stream YouTube content.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-multimedia
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-multimedia   
@table @kbd
@item C-e ;
@kindex C-e ;
@item <fn> ;
@kindex <fn> ;
@end table

@findex emacspeak-multimedia

@format
Start or control Emacspeak multimedia player.

Uses current context to prompt for media to play.
Controls media playback when already playing a stream.

key             binding
---             -------

C-l		ladspa
RET		emacspeak-m-player-load
ESC		Prefix Command
SPC		emacspeak-m-player-pause
%		emacspeak-m-player-display-percent
(		emacspeak-m-player-left-channel
)		emacspeak-m-player-right-channel
+		emacspeak-m-player-volume-up
,		emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s
-		emacspeak-m-player-volume-down
.		emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s
/		emacspeak-m-player-restore-process
1 .. 9		emacspeak-m-player-volume-set
;		emacspeak-m-player-pop-to-player
<		emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min
=		emacspeak-m-player-volume-up
>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min
?		emacspeak-m-player-display-position
A		emacspeak-m-player-amark-add
C		emacspeak-m-player-clear-filters
E		amixer-equalize
G		emacspeak-m-player-seek-percentage
L		emacspeak-m-player-locate-media
M		emacspeak-m-player-display-metadata
O		emacspeak-m-player-reset-options
P		emacspeak-m-player-apply-reverb-preset
Q		emacspeak-m-player-quit
R		emacspeak-m-player-edit-reverb
S		emacspeak-amark-save
[		emacspeak-m-player-slower
\		emacspeak-m-player-persist-process
]		emacspeak-m-player-faster
a		emacspeak-m-player-add-autopan
b		emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-m-player-mode
c		emacspeak-m-player-slave-command
d		emacspeak-m-player-delete-filter
e		emacspeak-m-player-add-equalizer
f		emacspeak-m-player-add-filter
g		emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute
i		emacspeak-m-player-stream-info
j		emacspeak-m-player-amark-jump
k		emacspeak-m-player-quit
l		emacspeak-m-player-get-length
m		emacspeak-m-player-speak-mode-line
n		emacspeak-m-player-next-track
o		emacspeak-m-player-customize-options
p		emacspeak-m-player-previous-track
q		bury-buffer
r		emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative
s		emacspeak-m-player-scale-speed
t		emacspeak-m-player-play-tracks-jump
u		emacspeak-m-player-url
v		emacspeak-m-player-volume-change
x		emacspeak-m-player-pan
@{		emacspeak-m-player-half-speed
@}		emacspeak-m-player-double-speed
DEL		emacspeak-m-player-reset-speed
<down>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min
<end>		emacspeak-m-player-end-of-track
<home>		emacspeak-m-player-beginning-of-track
<left>		emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s
<next>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-10min
<prior>		emacspeak-m-player-backward-10min
<right>		emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s
<up>		emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min

M-l		emacspeak-m-player-load-playlist

.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-m-player Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-m-player-options
Options passed to mplayer.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-m-player-program
Media player program.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-m-player-recent-amark-name
Name used to  mark position where we quit a stream.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-m-player-reverb-filter
Tap Reverb Settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-m-player-youtube-dl
YouTube download tool

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-media-location-bindings
*Map specific key sequences to launching MPlayer accelerators
on a specific directory.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-magit
@section emacspeak-magit

MAGIT ==  Git interface in Emacs
git clone git://github.com/magit/magit.git

@subsection emacspeak-magit Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-branch-local-voice
Personality used for magit-branch-local
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-branch-remote-voice
Personality used for magit-branch-remote
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-branch-voice
Personality used for magit-branch
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-add-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-add
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-added-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-added-highlight
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-base-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-base-highlight
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-context-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-context-highlight
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-del-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-del
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-file-header-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-file-header
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-file-heading-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-file-heading-highlight
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-hunk-header-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-hunk-header
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-hunk-heading-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-hunk-heading-highlight
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-hunk-heading-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-hunk-heading
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-none-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-none
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-diff-removed-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-diff-removed-highlight
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-dimmed-voice
Personality used for magit-dimmed
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-hash-voice
Personality used for magit-hash
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-header-line-voice
Personality used for magit-header-line
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-item-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-item-highlight
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-item-mark-voice
Personality used for magit-item-mark
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-graph-voice
Personality used for magit-log-graph
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-head-label-bisect-bad-voice
Personality used for magit-log-head-label-bisect-bad
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-head-label-bisect-good-voice
Personality used for magit-log-head-label-bisect-good
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-head-label-default-voice
Personality used for magit-log-head-label-default
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-head-label-local-voice
Personality used for magit-log-head-label-local
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-head-label-patches-voice
Personality used for magit-log-head-label-patches
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-head-label-remote-voice
Personality used for magit-log-head-label-remote
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-head-label-tags-voice
Personality used for magit-log-head-label-tags
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-message-voice
Personality used for magit-log-message
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-sha1-voice
Personality used for magit-log-sha1
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-log-tag-label-voice
Personality used for magit-log-tag-label
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-popup-heading-voice
Personality used for magit-popup-heading
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-popup-key-voice
Personality used for magit-popup-key
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-section-heading-voice
Personality used for magit-section-heading
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-section-highlight-voice
Personality used for magit-section-highlight
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-section-secondary-heading-voice
Personality used for magit-section-secondary-heading
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-magit-tag-voice
Personality used for magit-tag
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-make-mode
@section emacspeak-make-mode

This module speech enables make-mode

@subsection emacspeak-make-mode Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-makepp-perl-voice
Personality used for makefile-makepp-perl
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-shell-voice
Personality used for makefile-shell
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-space-voice
Personality used for makefile-space
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-targets-voice
Personality used for makefile-targets
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-man
@section emacspeak-man

Provide additional advice to man-mode 

@subsection emacspeak-man Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-man-browse-man-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-man-browse-man-page   
@findex emacspeak-man-browse-man-page

@format
Browse the man page --read it a paragraph at a time
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-man-speak-this-section
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-man-speak-this-section   
@findex emacspeak-man-speak-this-section

@format
Speak current section
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-markdown
@section emacspeak-markdown

MARKDOWN ==  Light-weight markup.
This module speech-enables markdown.el

@subsection emacspeak-markdown Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-blockquote-personality
Personality used for markdown-blockquote-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-bold-personality
Personality used for markdown-bold-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-comment-personality
Personality used for markdown-comment-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-footnote-personality
Personality used for markdown-footnote-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-delimiter-personality
Personality used for markdown-header-delimiter-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-face-1-voice
Personality used for markdown-header-face-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-face-2-voice
Personality used for markdown-header-face-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-face-3-voice
Personality used for markdown-header-face-3
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-face-4-voice
Personality used for markdown-header-face-4
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-face-5-voice
Personality used for markdown-header-face-5
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-face-6-voice
Personality used for markdown-header-face-6
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-personality
Personality used for markdown-header-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-header-rule-personality
Personality used for markdown-header-rule-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-inline-code-personality
Personality used for markdown-inline-code-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-italic-personality
Personality used for markdown-italic-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-language-keyword-personality
Personality used for markdown-language-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-line-break-personality
Personality used for markdown-line-break-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-link-personality
Personality used for markdown-link-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-link-title-personality
Personality used for markdown-link-title-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-list-personality
Personality used for markdown-list-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-math-personality
Personality used for markdown-math-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-metadata-key-personality
Personality used for markdown-metadata-key-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-metadata-value-personality
Personality used for markdown-metadata-value-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-missing-link-personality
Personality used for markdown-missing-link-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-pre-personality
Personality used for markdown-pre-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-reference-personality
Personality used for markdown-reference-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-markdown-url-personality
Personality used for markdown-url-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-maths
@section emacspeak-maths

@subsection Setup 
Do not try what follows until you have read  js/node/README.org
and successfully set up nvm (Node Version Manager) as described there.
@subsection Technical Overview 
Spoken mathematics on the emacspeak audio desktop. Use a NodeJS
based speech-rule-engine for Mathematics as the backend for
processing mathematical markup. The result of this processing is
an annotated S-expression that is rendered via Emacspeak's speech
facilities. Annotations follow Aural CSS as implemented in
Emacspeak, This allows us to map these expressions to aural
properties supported by specific TTS engines. 
@subsection Basic Usage: 

Start  the server/client: M-x emacspeak-maths-start. Once the server
and client are started, you can browse any number of math
expressions using the emacspeak-maths-navigator described below.
Note: In general, once everything is configured correctly, using
the maths navigator automatically starts the server and
client. Invoke the Navigator using s-spc --- this is the <windows>
key on
Linux. Now you can use these keys:
@itemize
@item  Show Output <o> Switch to output buffer and quit Maths Navigator
@item Enter: <SPC>
Enter a LaTeX expression.
@item Smart-Enter: <enter> Enter the guessed expression with no prompting.
@item Alt-Text <a> Process alt-text
under point as LaTeX.
@item Down <down> Move down a level.
@item
Up <up> Move up a level.
@item Left <left> Move left.
@item Right
<right> Move right.
@item Exit <any other key> Exit
navigator.

@end itemize
The current expression is spoken after
each of the above commands. It is also displayed in a special
buffer *Spoken Math*. That buffer holds all previously generated
output, And Emacs commands forward-page and backward-page can be
used to move through each chunk of output.

@subsection emacspeak-maths Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-depth
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-depth   
@findex emacspeak-maths-depth

@format
Move depth in current Math expression.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-down
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-down   
@findex emacspeak-maths-down

@format
Move down in current Math expression.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-enter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-enter  (latex)
@findex emacspeak-maths-enter

@format
Send a LaTeX expression to Maths server.
Tries to guess default based on context.
Uses guessed default if user enters an empty string.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-enter-guess
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-enter-guess   
@findex emacspeak-maths-enter-guess

@format
Send the guessed  LaTeX expression to Maths server.
Guess is based on context.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-left
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-left   
@findex emacspeak-maths-left

@format
Move left in current Math expression.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-navigator/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-navigator/body   
@table @kbd
@item s-SPC
@kindex s-SPC
@end table

@findex emacspeak-maths-navigator/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"o":    ‘emacspeak-maths-switch-to-output’,
"RET":    ‘emacspeak-maths-enter-guess’,
"SPC":    ‘emacspeak-maths-enter’,
"a":    ‘emacspeak-maths-speak-alt’,
"d":    ‘emacspeak-maths-depth’,
"r":    ‘emacspeak-maths-root’,
"<up>":    ‘emacspeak-maths-up’,
"<down>":    ‘emacspeak-maths-down’,
"<left>":    ‘emacspeak-maths-left’,
"<right>":    ‘emacspeak-maths-right’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-maths-navigator/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-restart
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-restart   
@findex emacspeak-maths-restart

@format
Restart Node math-server if running. Otherwise starts a new one.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-right
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-right   
@findex emacspeak-maths-right

@format
Move right in current Math expression.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-root
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-root   
@findex emacspeak-maths-root

@format
Move root in current Math expression.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-shutdown
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-shutdown   
@findex emacspeak-maths-shutdown

@format
Shutdown client and server processes.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-speak-alt
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-speak-alt   
@findex emacspeak-maths-speak-alt

@format
Speak alt text as Maths.
For use on Wikipedia pages  for example.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-spoken-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-spoken-mode   
@findex emacspeak-maths-spoken-mode

@format
Special mode for interacting with Spoken Math.

This mode is used by the special buffer that displays spoken math
returned from the Node server.
This mode is similar to Emacs’ ‘view-mode’.
see the key-binding list at the end of this description.
Emacs online help facility to look up help on these commands.

key             binding
---             -------

[		backward-page
]		forward-page
h		emacspeak-maths-left
j		emacspeak-maths-down
k		emacspeak-maths-up
l		emacspeak-maths-right

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-maths-spoken-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-start
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-start   
@findex emacspeak-maths-start

@format
Start Maths server bridge.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-switch-to-output
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-switch-to-output   
@findex emacspeak-maths-switch-to-output

@format
Switch to output buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-maths-up
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-maths-up   
@findex emacspeak-maths-up

@format
Move up in current Math expression.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-maths Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-maths-inferior-program
Location of ‘node’ executable.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-message
@section emacspeak-message

advice for posting message commands

@subsection emacspeak-message Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-punctuation-mode
Pronunciation mode to use for message buffers.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-metapost
@section emacspeak-metapost

Speech-enables metapost mode.
metapost is a powerful drawing package
typically installed as mpost by modern TeX
installations.

@node emacspeak-midge
@section emacspeak-midge

This module speech enables  midge.
Midge is a MIDI composer/editor tool.
From the package README file:
                                        ; Midge, for midi generator, is a text to midi translator.
                                        ; It creates type 1 (ie multitrack) midi files from text
                                        ; descriptions of music. It is a single perl script, which
                                        ; does not require any additional modules.
The package also provides a convenient emacs mode for
editing and playing  midge files.
Midge's homepage is at:
http://www.dmriley.demon.co.uk/code/midge/ 

@node emacspeak-mpg123
@section emacspeak-mpg123

This module speech-enables  MPG123
MPG123 is an MP3 player.

@subsection emacspeak-mpg123 Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-mp3-playlist-play
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mp3-playlist-play  (playlist &optional dont-shuffle)
@findex emacspeak-mp3-playlist-play

@format
Play a playlist. 
Optional interactive prefix arg says not to shuffle  the list. 
Use command M-x emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip 
to skip to the next track. 

(fn PLAYLIST &optional DONT-SHUFFLE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip   
@findex emacspeak-mp3-playlist-skip

@format
Skip currently playing track. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mp3-playlist-stop
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mp3-playlist-stop   
@findex emacspeak-mp3-playlist-stop

@format
Kill currently playing playlist. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mpg123-backward-minute
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mpg123-backward-minute  (arg)
@findex emacspeak-mpg123-backward-minute

@format
Move back by specified number of minutes.

(fn ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mpg123-forward-minute
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mpg123-forward-minute  (arg)
@findex emacspeak-mpg123-forward-minute

@format
Forward by ARG minutes.

(fn ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mpg123-speak-current-time
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-current-time   
@findex emacspeak-mpg123-speak-current-time

@format
Speak time in current track.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mpg123-speak-filename
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-filename   
@findex emacspeak-mpg123-speak-filename

@format
Speak filename of the current song.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mpg123-speak-length
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-length   
@findex emacspeak-mpg123-speak-length

@format
Speak duration of the current song.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mpg123-speak-title
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mpg123-speak-title   
@findex emacspeak-mpg123-speak-title

@format
Speak title of the current song.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-mspools
@section emacspeak-mspools

Speech-enable  mspools --a package that lets you monitor
multiple maildrops

@node emacspeak-muggles
@section emacspeak-muggles

MUGGLES ==  Emacspeak spells for power-users.

This module implements no new functionality --- contrast with
emacspeak-wizards.  Instead, it uses package hydra to provide
convenience key-bindings that access existing Emacspeak
functionality.
You need to install package Hydra first:
@samp{M-x package-install  hydra}.

Note that on newer versions of Emacs, loading this module will
attempt to automatically install package hydra if it is not found.

@subsection Implemented Muggles

@itemize
@item Brightness: <print> Control display brightness using xbacklight.
@item View-Mode: <C-c v> Temporarily behave like view-mode.
@item Navigate: <s-n> Navigate with ease.
@item  org-mode structure nav: <C-c SPC> Structure navigation  for org-mode.
@item  org-mode tables: <C-c t> Table UI for org-mode tables.
@item m-player: <s-m> Emacspeak-M-Player Commands
@item m-player: <s-;> Emacspeak-M-Player muggle
@item pianobar: <s-'> Emacspeak-M-pianobar Commands
@item hideshow: C-c h Provide HideShow bindings.
@item toggle-option:  <C-c o> Single binding for toggling options.
@item outliner: <C-c .> Bindings from outline-minor-mode.
@item Info-Summary: <?> in Info Info Summary Muggle
@item Repeatable-Yank: <C-y> Smart yank
@end itemize

Emacspeak automatically speaks Hydra hints when displayed.
To silence all Hydra hints, set hydra-is-helpful to nil.  To
temporarily silence speaking of Hydra hints, Muggles can bind
command @code{emacspeak-hydra-toggle-talkative}.  As an
example, Muggle @samp{ViewMode} binds @code{s} to this command.

@subsection emacspeak-muggles Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-brightness/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-brightness/body   
@table @kbd
@item <print>
@kindex <print>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-brightness/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-brightness")’,
"s":    ‘xbacklight-set’,
"g":    ‘xbacklight-get’,
"<print>":    ‘xbacklight-black’,
"0":    ‘xbacklight-black’,
"1":    ‘xbacklight-white’,
"d":    ‘xbacklight-decrement’,
"i":    ‘xbacklight-increment’,
"SPC":    ‘xbacklight-increment’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-brightness/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-emacspeak-m-player-mode-map-cmd
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-emacspeak-m-player-mode-map-cmd   
@table @kbd
@item s-m
@kindex s-m
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-emacspeak-m-player-mode-map-cmd

@format
Temporarily use keymap emacspeak-m-player-mode-map
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-hideshow/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-hideshow/body   
@table @kbd
@item C-c h
@kindex C-c h
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-hideshow/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-hideshow")’,
"h":    ‘hs-hide-block’,
"s":    ‘hs-show-block’,
"H":    ‘hs-hide-all’,
"S":    ‘hs-show-all’,
"i":    ‘hs-hide-initial-comment-block’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-hideshow/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-ido-yank
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-ido-yank   
@table @kbd
@item C-M-y
@kindex C-M-y
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-ido-yank

@format
Pick what to yank using ido completion.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-info-summary/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-info-summary/body   
@findex emacspeak-muggles-info-summary/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"]":    ‘Info-forward-node’,
"[":    ‘Info-backward-node’,
"n":    ‘Info-next’,
"p":    ‘Info-prev’,
"s":    ‘Info-search’,
"S":    ‘Info-search-case-sensitively’,
"l":    ‘Info-history-back’,
"r":    ‘Info-history-forward’,
"H":    ‘Info-history’,
"t":    ‘Info-top-node’,
"<":    ‘Info-top-node’,
">":    ‘Info-final-node’,
"u":    ‘Info-up’,
"^":    ‘Info-up’,
"m":    ‘Info-menu’,
"g":    ‘Info-goto-node’,
"b":    ‘beginning-of-buffer’,
"e":    ‘end-of-buffer’,
"f":    ‘Info-follow-reference’,
"i":    ‘Info-index’,
",":    ‘Info-index-next’,
"I":    ‘Info-virtual-index’,
"T":    ‘Info-toc’,
"d":    ‘Info-directory’,
"c":    ‘Info-copy-current-node-name’,
"C":    ‘clone-buffer’,
"a":    ‘info-apropos’,
"1":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"2":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"3":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"4":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"5":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"6":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"7":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"8":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"9":    ‘Info-nth-menu-item’,
"?":    ‘Info-summary’,
"h":    ‘Info-help’,
"q":    ‘Info-exit’,
"C-g":    ‘nil’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-info-summary/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-m-player/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-m-player/body   
@table @kbd
@item s-;
@kindex s-;
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-m-player/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

";":    ‘emacspeak-m-player’,
"+":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-volume-up’,
",":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s’,
"%":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-display-percent’,
"-":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-volume-down’,
".":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s’,
"<":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min’,
"<down>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min’,
"<end>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-end-of-track’,
"<home>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-beginning-of-track’,
"<left>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-backward-10s’,
"<next>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-forward-10min’,
"<prior>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-backward-10min’,
"<right>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-forward-10s’,
"<up>":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-backward-1min’,
"=":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-volume-up’,
">":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-forward-1min’,
"?":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-display-position’,
"C":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-clear-filters’,
"C-m":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-load’,
"DEL":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-reset-speed’,
"L":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-load-file’,
"M-l":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-load-playlist’,
"O":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-reset-options’,
"P":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-apply-reverb-preset’,
"Q":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-quit’,
"R":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-edit-reverb’,
"S":    ‘emacspeak-amark-save’,
"SPC":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-pause’,
"[":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-slower’,
"]":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-faster’,
"a":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-amark-add’,
"b":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-balance’,
"c":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-slave-command’,
"d":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-delete-filter’,
"e":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-add-equalizer’,
"f":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-add-filter’,
"g":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-seek-absolute’,
"j":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-amark-jump’,
"l":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-get-length’,
"m":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-speak-mode-line’,
"n":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-next-track’,
"o":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-customize-options’,
"p":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-previous-track’,
"q":    ‘bury-buffer’,
"r":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-seek-relative’,
"s":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-scale-speed’,
"t":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-play-tracks-jump’,
"u":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-url’,
"v":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-volume-change’,
"(":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-left-channel’,
")":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-right-channel’,
"@{":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-half-speed’,
"@}":    ‘emacspeak-m-player-double-speed’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-m-player/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-navigate/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-navigate/body   
@table @kbd
@item s-n
@kindex s-n
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-navigate/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-navigate")’,
"s":    ‘emacspeak-hydra-toggle-talkative’,
"n":    ‘next-line’,
"p":    ‘previous-line’,
"f":    ‘forward-char’,
"b":    ‘backward-char’,
"a":    ‘beginning-of-line’,
"e":    ‘move-end-of-line’,
"j":    ‘next-line’,
"k":    ‘previous-line’,
"v":    ‘scroll-up-command’,
"V":    ‘scroll-down-command’,
"l":    ‘recenter-top-bottom’,
"<":    ‘beginning-of-buffer’,
">":    ‘end-of-buffer’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-navigate/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-org-nav/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-org-nav/body   
@findex emacspeak-muggles-org-nav/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-org-nav")’,
"SPC":    ‘emacspeak-outline-speak-this-heading’,
"n":    ‘outline-next-visible-heading’,
"p":    ‘outline-previous-visible-heading’,
"N":    ‘org-forward-heading-same-level’,
"P":    ‘org-backward-heading-same-level’,
"u":    ‘outline-up-heading’,
"g":    ‘org-goto’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-org-nav/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-org-table/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-org-table/body   
@findex emacspeak-muggles-org-table/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-org-table")’,
"j":    ‘org-table-next-row’,
"k":    ‘org-table-previous-row’,
"h":    ‘org-table-previous-field’,
"l":    ‘org-table-next-field’,
"SPC":    ‘emacspeak-org-table-speak-current-element’,
".":    ‘emacspeak-org-table-speak-coordinates’,
"b":    ‘emacspeak-org-table-speak-both-headers-and-element’,
"r":    ‘emacspeak-org-table-speak-row-header-and-element’,
"c":    ‘emacspeak-org-table-speak-column-header-and-element’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-org-table/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-outliner/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-outliner/body   
@findex emacspeak-muggles-outliner/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-outliner")’,
"q":    ‘outline-hide-sublevels’,
"t":    ‘outline-hide-body’,
"o":    ‘outline-hide-other’,
"c":    ‘outline-hide-entry’,
"l":    ‘outline-hide-leaves’,
"d":    ‘outline-hide-subtree’,
"a":    ‘outline-show-all’,
"e":    ‘outline-show-entry’,
"i":    ‘outline-show-children’,
"k":    ‘outline-show-branches’,
"s":    ‘outline-show-subtree’,
"u":    ‘outline-up-heading’,
"n":    ‘outline-next-visible-heading’,
"p":    ‘outline-previous-visible-heading’,
"f":    ‘outline-forward-same-level’,
"b":    ‘outline-backward-same-level’,
"z":    ‘nil’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-outliner/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-toggle-option/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-toggle-option/body   
@table @kbd
@item C-c o
@kindex C-c o
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-toggle-option/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-toggle-option")’,
"F":    ‘flyspell-mode’,
"a":    ‘abbrev-mode’,
"d":    ‘toggle-debug-on-error’,
"f":    ‘auto-fill-mode’,
"g":    ‘toggle-debug-on-quit’,
"h":    ‘(setq hydra-is-helpful (not hydra-is-helpful))’,
"i":    ‘ido-everywhere’,
"t":    ‘toggle-truncate-lines’,
"u":    ‘ido-ubiquitous-mode’,
"w":    ‘whitespace-mode’,
"q":    ‘nil’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-toggle-option/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-view/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-view/body   
@table @kbd
@item C-c v
@kindex C-c v
@item C-' v
@kindex C-' v
@item C-x @@ s v
@kindex C-x @@ s v
@end table

@findex emacspeak-muggles-view/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-view")’,
"$":    ‘set-selective-display’,
"%":    ‘View-goto-percent’,
"’":    ‘register-to-point’,
"(":    ‘backward-sexp’,
")":    ‘forward-sexp’,
".":    ‘set-mark-command’,
"/":    ‘View-search-regexp-forward’,
"<":    ‘beginning-of-buffer’,
"<return>":    ‘nil’,
"=":    ‘what-line’,
">":    ‘end-of-buffer’,
"@@":    ‘View-back-to-mark’,
"A":    ‘beginning-of-defun’,
"DEL":    ‘View-scroll-page-backward’,
"E":    ‘end-of-defun’,
"J":    ‘(emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block (quote all))’,
"SPC":    ‘View-scroll-page-forward’,
"[":    ‘backward-page’,
"\":    ‘View-search-regexp-backward’,
"]":    ‘forward-page’,
"a":    ‘move-beginning-of-line’,
"b":    ‘backward-word’,
"c":    ‘emacspeak-speak-char’,
"d":    ‘View-scroll-half-page-forward’,
"e":    ‘move-end-of-line’,
"f":    ‘forward-word’,
"g":    ‘goto-line’,
"h":    ‘backward-char’,
"i":    ‘emacspeak-speak-mode-line’,
"j":    ‘next-line’,
"k":    ‘previous-line’,
"l":    ‘forward-char’,
"m":    ‘point-to-register’,
"n":    ‘View-search-last-regexp-forward’,
"p":    ‘View-search-last-regexp-backward’,
"q":    ‘nil’,
"r":    ‘copy-to-register’,
"s":    ‘emacspeak-hydra-toggle-talkative’,
"t":    ‘(recenter 0)’,
"u":    ‘View-scroll-half-page-backward’,
"w":    ‘emacspeak-speak-word’,
"x":    ‘exchange-point-and-mark’,
"y":    ‘kill-ring-save’,
"@{":    ‘backward-paragraph’,
"@}":    ‘forward-paragraph’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-view/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-muggles-yank-pop/body
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-muggles-yank-pop/body   
@findex emacspeak-muggles-yank-pop/body

@format
Create a hydra with no body and the heads:

"?":    ‘(emacspeak-hydra-self-help "emacspeak-muggles-yank-pop")’,
"C-y":    ‘yank’,
"M-y":    ‘yank-pop’,
"y":    ‘(funcall-interactively (function yank-pop) 1)’,
"Y":    ‘(funcall-interactively (function yank-pop) -1)’,
"i":    ‘emacspeak-muggles-ido-yank’,
"s":    ‘emacspeak-muggles-ido-yank’,
"l":    ‘browse-kill-ring’

The body can be accessed via ‘emacspeak-muggles-yank-pop/body’.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-muse
@section emacspeak-muse

Speech enable Muse

@subsection emacspeak-muse Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-bad-link-personality
Personality used for muse-bad-link-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-emphasis-1-voice
Personality used for muse-emphasis-1
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-emphasis-2-voice
Personality used for muse-emphasis-2
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-emphasis-3-voice
Personality used for muse-emphasis-3
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-1-voice
Personality used for muse-header-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-2-voice
Personality used for muse-header-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-3-voice
Personality used for muse-header-3
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-4-voice
Personality used for muse-header-4
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-5-voice
Personality used for muse-header-5
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-link-personality
Personality used for muse-link-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-verbatim-personality
Personality used for muse-verbatim-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-net-utils
@section emacspeak-net-utils

This module speech enables net-utils

@node emacspeak-newsticker
@section emacspeak-newsticker

Newsticker provides a continuously updating newsticker using
RSS
Provides functionality similar to amphetadesk --but in pure elisp

@subsection emacspeak-newsticker Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-newsticker-feed-personality
Personality used for newsticker-feed-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-newsticker-new-item-personality
Personality used for newsticker-new-item-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-newsticker-old-item-personality
Personality used for newsticker-old-item-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-npr
@section emacspeak-npr

NPR == http://www.npr.org National Public Radio in the US.
It provides a simple Web  API documented at http://www.npr.org/api/index.
This module implements an Emacspeak Npr client.
Users will need to get their own API key.

@subsection Usage

Command: @code{emacspeak-npr-play-program} @kbd{C-; n}
--- Play current or past program with completion for program name.

@code{emacspeak-npr-listing} @kbd{C-; N}
--- List NPR programs, blogs, etc with completion.
Streams can be played from within the displayed listing.

In all cases, streams are played using module @code{emacspeak-m-player}.

@subsection emacspeak-npr Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-npr-listing
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-npr-listing  (&optional search)
@table @kbd
@item C-; N
@kindex C-; N
@item C-x @@ h N
@kindex C-x @@ h N
@end table

@findex emacspeak-npr-listing

@format
Display specified listing.
Interactive prefix arg prompts for search.

(fn &optional SEARCH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-npr-listing-url-executor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-npr-listing-url-executor  (url &optional get-date)
@findex emacspeak-npr-listing-url-executor

@format
Special executor for use in NPR  listings.
Optional prefix arg prompts for date.

(fn URL &optional GET-DATE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-npr-play-program
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-npr-play-program  (pid &optional get-date)
@table @kbd
@item C-; n
@kindex C-; n
@item C-x @@ h n
@kindex C-x @@ h n
@end table

@findex emacspeak-npr-play-program

@format
Play specified NPR program.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for a date.

(fn PID &optional GET-DATE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-npr-refresh-program-table
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-npr-refresh-program-table  (&optional force)
@findex emacspeak-npr-refresh-program-table

@format
Refresh program table cache if needed.

(fn &optional FORCE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-npr-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-npr-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-npr-search

@format
Search NPR

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-npr Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-npr-api-key
Web API  key for this application.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-npr-local-cache
Location where we cache NPR playlists.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-nxml
@section emacspeak-nxml

nxml-mode is a new XML mode for emacs by James Clark.
 http://www.thaiopensource.com/download/

@subsection emacspeak-nxml Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-nxml-summarize-outline
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-nxml-summarize-outline   
@findex emacspeak-nxml-summarize-outline

@format
Intelligent spoken display of current outline entry.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-nxml Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-attribute-colon-voice
Personality used for nxml-attribute-colon
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-attribute-local-name-voice
Personality used for nxml-attribute-local-name
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-attribute-prefix-voice
Personality used for nxml-attribute-prefix
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-attribute-value-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-attribute-value-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-attribute-value-voice
Personality used for nxml-attribute-value
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-cdata-section-CDATA-voice
Personality used for nxml-cdata-section-CDATA
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-cdata-section-content-voice
Personality used for nxml-cdata-section-content
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-cdata-section-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-cdata-section-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-char-ref-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-char-ref-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-char-ref-number-voice
Personality used for nxml-char-ref-number
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-comment-content-voice
Personality used for nxml-comment-content
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-comment-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-comment-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-delimited-data-voice
Personality used for nxml-delimited-data
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-element-colon-voice
Personality used for nxml-element-colon
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-element-local-name-voice
Personality used for nxml-element-local-name
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-element-prefix-voice
Personality used for nxml-element-prefix
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-entity-ref-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-entity-ref-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-entity-ref-name-voice
Personality used for nxml-entity-ref-name
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-hash-voice
Personality used for nxml-hash
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-markup-declaration-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-markup-declaration-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-name-voice
Personality used for nxml-name
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-namespace-attribute-colon-voice
Personality used for nxml-namespace-attribute-colon
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-namespace-attribute-prefix-voice
Personality used for nxml-namespace-attribute-prefix
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-namespace-attribute-value-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-namespace-attribute-value-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-namespace-attribute-value-voice
Personality used for nxml-namespace-attribute-value
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-namespace-attribute-xmlns-voice
Personality used for nxml-namespace-attribute-xmlns
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-processing-instruction-content-voice
Personality used for nxml-processing-instruction-content
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-processing-instruction-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-processing-instruction-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-processing-instruction-target-voice
Personality used for nxml-processing-instruction-target
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-prolog-keyword-voice
Personality used for nxml-prolog-keyword
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-prolog-literal-content-voice
Personality used for nxml-prolog-literal-content
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-prolog-literal-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-prolog-literal-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-ref-voice
Personality used for nxml-ref
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-tag-delimiter-voice
Personality used for nxml-tag-delimiter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-nxml-tag-slash-voice
Personality used for nxml-tag-slash
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rng-error-voice
Personality used for rng-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ocr
@section emacspeak-ocr

This module defines Emacspeak front-end to OCR.
This module assumes that sane is installed and working
for image acquisition,
and that there is an OCR engine that can take acquired
images and produce text.
Prerequisites:
Sane installed and working.
scanimage to generate tiff files from scanner.
tiffcp to compress the tiff file.
working ocr executable 
by default this module assumes that the OCR executable
is named "ocr"

@subsection emacspeak-ocr Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-o
@kindex C-e C-o
@item <fn> C-o
@kindex <fn> C-o
@end table

@findex emacspeak-ocr

@format
An OCR front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.  

Page image is acquired using tools from the SANE package.
The acquired image is run through the OCR engine if one is
available, and the results placed in a buffer that is
suitable for browsing the results.

For detailed help, invoke command emacspeak-ocr bound to
C-e C-o to launch emacspeak-ocr-mode, and press
‘?’ to display mode-specific help for emacspeak-ocr-mode.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-backward-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-backward-page  (&optional count-ignored)
@findex emacspeak-ocr-backward-page

@format
Like backward page, but tracks page number of current document.

(fn &optional COUNT-IGNORED)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-customize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-customize   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-customize

@format
Customize OCR settings.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-flipflop-and-recognize-image
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-flipflop-and-recognize-image   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-flipflop-and-recognize-image

@format
Run OCR engine on current image after flip-flopping it.
Useful if you’ve scanned a page upside down and are using an engine that does not automatically flip the image for you.
You need the imagemagik family of tools --- we use mogrify to transform the image.
Prompts for image file if file corresponding to the expected
‘current page’ is not found.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-forward-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-forward-page  (&optional count-ignored)
@findex emacspeak-ocr-forward-page

@format
Like forward page, but tracks page number of current document.

(fn &optional COUNT-IGNORED)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-mode   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-mode

@format
 An OCR front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.

Pre-requisites:

1) A working scanner back-end like SANE on Linux.

2) An OCR engine.

1: Make sure your scanner back-end works, and that you have
the utilities to scan a document and acquire an image as a
tiff file.  Then set variable
emacspeak-ocr-scan-image-program to point at this utility.
By default, this is set to ‘scanimage’ which is the image
scanning utility provided by SANE.

By default, this front-end attempts to compress the acquired
tiff image; make sure you have a utility like tiffcp.
Variable emacspeak-ocr-compress-image is set to ‘tiffcp’ by
default; if you use something else, you should customize
this variable.

2: Next, make sure you have an OCR engine installed and
working.  By default this front-end assumes that OCR is
available as /usr/bin/ocr.

Once you have ensured that acquiring an image and applying
OCR to it work independently of Emacs, you can use this
Emacspeak front-end to enable easy OCR access from within
Emacspeak.

The Emacspeak OCR front-end is launched by command
emacspeak-ocr bound to C-e C-o.  

This command switches to a special buffer that has OCR
commands bounds to single keystrokes-- see the key-binding
list at the end of this description.  Use Emacs online help
facility to look up help on these commands.

emacspeak-ocr-mode provides the necessary functionality to
scan, OCR, read and save documents.  By default, scanned
images and the resulting text are saved under directory
~/ocr; see variable emacspeak-ocr-working-directory.
Invoking command emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory bound
to M-x emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory will open this directory.

By default, the document being scanned is named ‘untitled’.
You can name the document by using command
emacspeak-ocr-name-document bound to
M-x emacspeak-ocr-name-document.  The document name is used
in constructing the name of the image and text files.

Key Bindings: 

See key             binding
---             -------

RET		emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize
SPC		emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page
1 .. 9		emacspeak-ocr-page
?		describe-mode
C		emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options
I		emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options
[		emacspeak-ocr-backward-page
]		emacspeak-ocr-forward-page
c		emacspeak-ocr-customize
d		emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory
f		emacspeak-ocr-flipflop-and-recognize-image
i		emacspeak-ocr-scan-image
j		emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo
n		emacspeak-ocr-name-document
o		emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image
p		emacspeak-ocr-page
q		bury-buffer
s		emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page
w		emacspeak-ocr-write-document

.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘text-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-ocr-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-name-document
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-name-document  (name)
@findex emacspeak-ocr-name-document

@format
Name document being scanned in the current OCR buffer.
Pick a short but meaningful name.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-open-working-directory

@format
Launch dired on OCR working directory.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-page   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-page

@format
Move to specified page.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-read-current-page

@format
Speaks current page.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-recognize-image

@format
Run OCR engine on current image.
Prompts for image file if file corresponding to the expected
‘current page’ is not found.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-save-current-page

@format
Writes out recognized text from current page
to an appropriately named file.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-scan-and-recognize

@format
Scan in a page and run OCR engine on it.
Use this command once you’ve verified that the separate
steps of acquiring an image and running the OCR engine work
correctly by themselves.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-scan-image
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-scan-image   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-scan-image

@format
Acquire page image.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo  (&optional metadata)
@findex emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo

@format
Scan in a photograph.
The scanned image is converted to JPEG.

(fn &optional METADATA)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options  (setting)
@findex emacspeak-ocr-set-compress-image-options

@format
Interactively update  image compression options.
Prompts with current setting in the minibuffer.
Setting persists for current Emacs session.

(fn SETTING)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options  (setting)
@findex emacspeak-ocr-set-scan-image-options

@format
Interactively update scan image options.
Prompts with current setting in the minibuffer.
Setting persists for current Emacs session.

(fn SETTING)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ocr-write-document
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ocr-write-document   
@findex emacspeak-ocr-write-document

@format
Writes out recognized text from all pages in current document.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-ocr Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-compress-image
Command used to compress the scanned tiff file.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-compress-image-options
Options used for compressing tiff image.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-compress-photo-options
Options used when created JPEG from  scanned photographs.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-engine
OCR engine to process acquired image.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-engine-options
Command line options to pass to OCR engine.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-image-extension
Filename extension used for acquired image.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-jpeg-metadata-writer
Program to add metadata to JPEG files.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-keep-uncompressed-image
If set to T, uncompressed image is not removed.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-photo-compress
Program to create JPEG compressed images.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-scan-image
Name of image acquisition program.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-scan-image-options
Command line options to pass to image acquisition program.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo-options
Options  used when scanning in photographs.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-working-directory
Directory where images and OCR results
will be placed.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-org
@section emacspeak-org

Speech-enable org ---
 Org allows you to keep organized notes and todo lists.
Homepage: http://www.astro.uva.nl/~dominik/Tools/org/
or http://orgmode.org/

@subsection emacspeak-org Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-bookmark
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-bookmark  (&optional goto)
@findex emacspeak-org-bookmark

@format
Bookmark from org.

(fn &optional GOTO)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-capture-link
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-capture-link   
@table @kbd
@item C-; h
@kindex C-; h
@item C-x @@ h h
@kindex C-x @@ h h
@end table

@findex emacspeak-org-capture-link

@format
Capture hyperlink to current context.
To use this command, first  do ‘customize-variable’ ‘org-capture-template’
and assign  letter ‘h’ to a template that creates the hyperlink on capture.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-popup-input
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-popup-input   
@findex emacspeak-org-popup-input

@format
Pops up an org input area.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-table-speak-both-headers-and-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-table-speak-both-headers-and-element   
@findex emacspeak-org-table-speak-both-headers-and-element

@format
echoes both row and col headers.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-table-speak-column-header
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-table-speak-column-header   
@findex emacspeak-org-table-speak-column-header

@format
echoes column header
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-table-speak-column-header-and-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-table-speak-column-header-and-element   
@findex emacspeak-org-table-speak-column-header-and-element

@format
echoes col header and element
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-table-speak-coordinates
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-table-speak-coordinates   
@findex emacspeak-org-table-speak-coordinates

@format
echoes coordinates
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-table-speak-current-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-table-speak-current-element   
@findex emacspeak-org-table-speak-current-element

@format
echoes current table element
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-table-speak-row-header
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-table-speak-row-header   
@findex emacspeak-org-table-speak-row-header

@format
echoes row header
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-org-table-speak-row-header-and-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-org-table-speak-row-header-and-element   
@findex emacspeak-org-table-speak-row-header-and-element

@format
echoes row header and element
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-org Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-org-bookmark-key
Key of template used for capturing  hot list.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-outline
@section emacspeak-outline

Provide additional advice to outline-mode

@subsection emacspeak-outline Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-outline-speak-backward-heading
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-backward-heading   
@findex emacspeak-outline-speak-backward-heading

@format
Analogous to outline-backward-same-level
except that the outline section is  spoken
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-outline-speak-forward-heading
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-forward-heading   
@findex emacspeak-outline-speak-forward-heading

@format
Analogous to outline-forward-same-level,
except that the outline section is  spoken
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-outline-speak-next-heading
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-next-heading   
@findex emacspeak-outline-speak-next-heading

@format
Analogous to outline-next-visible-heading,
except that the outline section is  spoken
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-outline-speak-previous-heading
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-previous-heading   
@findex emacspeak-outline-speak-previous-heading

@format
Analogous to outline-previous-visible-heading,
except that the outline section is  spoken
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-outline-speak-this-heading
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-outline-speak-this-heading   
@findex emacspeak-outline-speak-this-heading

@format
Speak current outline section starting from point
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-outline Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-dont-query-before-speaking
*Option to control prompts when speaking  outline
sections.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-package
@section emacspeak-package

PACKAGE == package.el
Manage Emacs packages.
This module speech-enables package.el with a few convenience commands.

@subsection emacspeak-package Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-package-next-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-package-next-line   
@findex emacspeak-package-next-line

@format
Move to next line and speak it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-package-previous-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-package-previous-line   
@findex emacspeak-package-previous-line

@format
Move to next line and speak it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-package-summarize-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-package-summarize-line   
@findex emacspeak-package-summarize-line

@format
Succinct Summary.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-paradox
@section emacspeak-paradox

PARADOX == paradox.el Improved package management interface
Manage Emacs packages.
This module speech-enables paradox.el with a few convenience commands.

@subsection emacspeak-paradox Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-paradox-summarize-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-paradox-summarize-line   
@findex emacspeak-paradox-summarize-line

@format
Succinct Summary.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-paradox Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-paradox-comment-personality
Personality used for paradox-comment-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-paradox-description-face-multiline-voice
Personality used for paradox-description-face-multiline
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-paradox-description-personality
Personality used for paradox-description-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-paradox-name-personality
Personality used for paradox-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-paradox-star-personality
Personality used for paradox-star-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-paradox-starred-personality
Personality used for paradox-starred-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-perl
@section emacspeak-perl

Provide additional advice to perl-mode 

@node emacspeak-personality
@section emacspeak-personality

Implementation Notes From 2015:

Setting emacspeak-personality-voiceify-faces to nil (none via
customize interface) now results in dtk-speak falling back to the
face->voice mapping defined via voice-setup for the face at
point. What this means:

1. You always get voice-locking except
when you set voice-lock-mode to nil.

2. The advice on
put-text-property and friends become a no-op and we still get
voice-locking.

3. Eventually this will become the default behavior
for voice-locking.

Implementation Notes from 2002.

This module defines a personality interface for implementing voice
lock via font lock.

@subsection emacspeak-personality Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personality-voiceify-faces
Determines how and if we voiceify faces.

All means   faces are  mapped directly to voices -- this is the default

Prepend means that the corresponding personality is prepended to the
existing personalities on the text.

Append means place corresponding personality at the end.

Simple means that voiceification is not cumulative.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personality-voiceify-overlays
Determines how and if we voiceify overlays.

None means that overlay faces are not mapped to voices.
Prepend means that the corresponding personality is prepended to the
existing personalities on the text under overlay.

Append means place corresponding personality at the end.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-php-mode
@section emacspeak-php-mode

speech-enable php-mode.el (available from sourceforge project
php-mode)

@node emacspeak-pianobar
@section emacspeak-pianobar

@subsection PIANOBAR ==  Pandora Client for Emacs

pianobar git://github.com/PromyLOPh/pianobar.git Ubuntu/Debian:
sudo apt-get install pianobar 

Pianobar Is a stand-alone client for Pandora Radio. pianobar.el
available on the Emacs Wiki at
http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/pianobar.el Provides access to
Pandora Radio via pianobar from the comfort of Emacs. This module
speech-enables Pianobar and enhances it for the Complete Audio
Desktop.

@subsection Emacspeak Usage:

Emacspeak implements command emacspeak-pianobar, a light-weight
wrapper on top of pianobar. Emacspeak binds this command to
@code{C-e '}. In my personal @code{.emacs}, I bind this to
@code{f5}. Command emacspeak-pianobar is designed to let you
launch Pandora channels and switch tracks/channels without moving
away from your primary tasks such as editting code or
reading/composing email. Toward this end, launching command
emacspeak-pianobar the first time initializes the
@code{*pianobar*} buffer and launches command @code{pianobar};
Focus is placed in the @code{*pianobar*} buffer. Pianobar can be
controlled with single keystrokes while in this buffer. The most
useful keys are @code{right} for skipping tracks, @code{up} and
@code{down} for switching channels etc.; see the keys bound in
@code{pianobar-key-map} for a complete list. Pressing @code{C-e '}
in  the @code{*pianobar*} buffer  buries the
@code{*pianobar*}. From here on, Pianobar can be controlled
by pressing the Pianobar prefix key (@code{C-e '}) followed by
keys from @code{pianobar-key-map}.

@subsection emacspeak-pianobar Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar   
@table @kbd
@item C-e '
@kindex C-e '
@item <fn> '
@kindex <fn> '
@end table

@findex emacspeak-pianobar

@format
Start or control Emacspeak Pianobar player.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar-command
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar-command  (key)
@findex emacspeak-pianobar-command

@format
Invoke Pianobar  commands.

(fn KEY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar-electric-mode-toggle
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar-electric-mode-toggle   
@findex emacspeak-pianobar-electric-mode-toggle

@format
Toggle electric mode in pianobar buffer.
If electric mode is on, keystrokes invoke pianobar commands directly.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar-next-preset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar-next-preset   
@findex emacspeak-pianobar-next-preset

@format
Switch to next preset.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar-previous-preset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar-previous-preset   
@findex emacspeak-pianobar-previous-preset

@format
Switch to previous preset.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar-switch-to-preset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar-switch-to-preset   
@findex emacspeak-pianobar-switch-to-preset

@format
Switch to one of the  presets.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar-volume-down
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar-volume-down   
@findex emacspeak-pianobar-volume-down

@format
Decrease volume
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pianobar-volume-up
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pianobar-volume-up   
@findex emacspeak-pianobar-volume-up

@format
Increase volume
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-pianobar Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pianobar-max-preset
Number of presets.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-popup
@section emacspeak-popup

POPUP ==  popup.el from MELPA

@node emacspeak-proced
@section emacspeak-proced

PROCED ==  Process Editor
A new Task Manager for Emacs.
Proced is part of emacs 23.

@subsection emacspeak-proced Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-jump-to-process
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-jump-to-process  (name)
@findex emacspeak-proced-jump-to-process

@format
Jump to process by name.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-next-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-next-field   
@findex emacspeak-proced-next-field

@format
Navigate to next field.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-next-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-next-line   
@findex emacspeak-proced-next-line

@format
Move to next line and speak a summary.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-previous-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-previous-field   
@findex emacspeak-proced-previous-field

@format
Navigate to previous field.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-previous-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-previous-line   
@findex emacspeak-proced-previous-line

@format
Move to next line and speak a summary.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-speak-args
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-speak-args   
@findex emacspeak-proced-speak-args

@format
Speak command  invocation  for this process.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-speak-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-speak-field  (field-name)
@findex emacspeak-proced-speak-field

@format
Speak value of specified field in current line.

(fn FIELD-NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-speak-that-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-speak-that-field   
@findex emacspeak-proced-speak-that-field

@format
Speak desired field via single keystroke.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-proced-speak-this-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-proced-speak-this-field  (&optional position)
@findex emacspeak-proced-speak-this-field

@format
Speak field at specified column --- defaults to current column.

(fn &optional POSITION)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-projectile
@section emacspeak-projectile

PROJECTILE ==  @samp{M-x package-install projectile}.
Project management in Emacs.

@node emacspeak-pronounce
@section emacspeak-pronounce

This module implements user customizable pronunciation dictionaries
for emacspeak. Custom pronunciations can be defined per file, per
directory and/or per major mode. Emacspeak maintains a persistent
user dictionary upon request and loads these in new emacspeak
sessions. This module implements the user interface to the custom
dictionary as well as providing the internal API used by the rest
of emacspeak in using the dictionary.
Algorithm:

The persistent dictionary is a hash table where the hash keys are
filenames, directory names, or major-mode names. The hash values
are association lists defining the dictionary. Users of this module
can retrieve a dictionary made up of all applicable association
lists for a given file.

@subsection emacspeak-pronounce Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-clear-dictionaries
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-clear-dictionaries   
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-clear-dictionaries

@format
Clear all current pronunciation dictionaries.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-define-local-pronunciation
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-define-local-pronunciation  (word pronunciation)
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-define-local-pronunciation

@format
Define buffer local pronunciation.
Argument WORD specifies the word which should be pronounced as specified by PRONUNCIATION.

(fn WORD PRONUNCIATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-define-pronunciation
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-define-pronunciation   
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-define-pronunciation

@format
Interactively define entries in the pronunciation dictionaries.
Default term to define is delimited by region.
First loads any persistent dictionaries if not already loaded.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-define-template-pronunciation
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-define-template-pronunciation   
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-define-template-pronunciation

@format
Interactively define template entries in the pronunciation dictionaries.
Default term to define is delimited by region.
First loads any persistent dictionaries if not already loaded.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-dispatch
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-dispatch   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-d
@kindex C-e M-d
@item <fn> M-d
@kindex <fn> M-d
@end table

@findex emacspeak-pronounce-dispatch

@format
Provides the user interface front-end to Emacspeak’s pronunciation dictionaries.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-edit-pronunciations
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-edit-pronunciations  (key)
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-edit-pronunciations

@format
Prompt for and launch a pronunciation editor on the
specified pronunciation dictionary key.

(fn KEY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-load-dictionaries
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-load-dictionaries  (&optional filename)
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-load-dictionaries

@format
Load pronunciation dictionaries.
Optional argument FILENAME specifies the dictionary file.

(fn &optional FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-refresh-pronunciations
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-refresh-pronunciations   
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-refresh-pronunciations

@format
Refresh pronunciation table for current buffer.
Activates pronunciation dictionaries if not already active.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-save-dictionaries
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-save-dictionaries   
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-save-dictionaries

@format
Writes out the persistent emacspeak pronunciation dictionaries.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-toggle-use-of-dictionaries
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-toggle-use-of-dictionaries  (&optional state)
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-toggle-use-of-dictionaries

@format
Toggle use of pronunciation dictionaries in current buffer.
Pronunciations can be defined on a per file, per directory and/or per
mode basis.
Pronunciations are activated on a per buffer basis.
Turning on the use of pronunciation dictionaries results in emacspeak
composing a pronunciation table based on the currently defined
pronunciation dictionaries.
After this, the pronunciations will be applied whenever text in the
buffer is spoken.
Optional argument state can be used from Lisp programs to
explicitly turn pronunciations on or off.

(fn &optional STATE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-pronounce-yank-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-pronounce-yank-word   
@findex emacspeak-pronounce-yank-word

@format
Yank word at point into minibuffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-pronounce Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-common-xml-namespace-uri-pronunciations
Pronunciations for well known namespace URIs.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-dictionaries-file
File that holds the persistent emacspeak pronunciation dictionaries.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-internet-smileys-pronunciations
Pronunciation dictionary used in all instant messenger and IRC chat
modes.
See http://www.charm.net/~kmarsh/smiley.html. 

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-load-pronunciations-on-startup
Says if user dictionaries loaded on emacspeak startup.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-pronunciation-personality
*Pronunciation personality.
This is the personality used when speaking things that have a pronunciation
applied.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-py
@section emacspeak-py

This speech-enables python-mode available on sourceforge and ELPA

@subsection emacspeak-py Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-XXX-tag-personality
Personality used for py-XXX-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-builtins-personality
Personality used for py-builtins-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-class-name-personality
Personality used for py-class-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-decorators-personality
Personality used for py-decorators-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-def-class-personality
Personality used for py-def-class-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-exception-name-personality
Personality used for py-exception-name-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-import-from-personality
Personality used for py-import-from-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-number-personality
Personality used for py-number-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-object-reference-personality
Personality used for py-object-reference-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-light whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-light-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-pseudo-keyword-personality
Personality used for py-pseudo-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-try-if-personality
Personality used for py-try-if-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-py-variable-name-personality
Personality used for py-variable-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-pydoc
@section emacspeak-pydoc

PYDOC ==  Python Documentation Viewer

@subsection emacspeak-pydoc Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-button-personality
Personality used for pydoc-button-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-callable-name-personality
Personality used for pydoc-callable-name-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-callable-param-personality
Personality used for pydoc-callable-param-face
This personality uses  emacspeak-voice-lock-variable-name-personality whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing emacspeak-voice-lock-variable-name-personality-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-class-name-link-personality
Personality used for pydoc-class-name-link-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-data-personality
Personality used for pydoc-data-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-envvars-personality
Personality used for pydoc-envvars-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-package-link-personality
Personality used for pydoc-package-link-face
This personality uses  emacspeak-voice-lock-variable-name-personality whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing emacspeak-voice-lock-variable-name-personality-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-source-file-link-personality
Personality used for pydoc-source-file-link-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-sphinx-directive-personality
Personality used for pydoc-sphinx-directive-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-sphinx-param-name-personality
Personality used for pydoc-sphinx-param-name-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-sphinx-param-type-personality
Personality used for pydoc-sphinx-param-type-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-string-personality
Personality used for pydoc-string-face
This personality uses  emacspeak-voice-lock-string-personality whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing emacspeak-voice-lock-string-personality-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pydoc-superclass-name-link-personality
Personality used for pydoc-superclass-name-link-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-python
@section emacspeak-python

This speech-enables python-mode bundled with Emacs

@node emacspeak-racket
@section emacspeak-racket

racket-mode implements an IDE for racket, a dialect of scheme.

@subsection emacspeak-racket Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-racket-check-syntax-def-personality
Personality used for racket-check-syntax-def-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-racket-check-syntax-use-personality
Personality used for racket-check-syntax-use-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-racket-here-string-personality
Personality used for racket-here-string-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-racket-keyword-argument-personality
Personality used for racket-keyword-argument-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-racket-paren-personality
Personality used for racket-paren-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-racket-selfeval-personality
Personality used for racket-selfeval-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-re-builder
@section emacspeak-re-builder

Speech-enable re-builder.
Will be used to advantage in efficiently setting up outline
regexp wizards



@subsection emacspeak-re-builder Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-0-voice
Personality used for reb-match-0
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-0 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-0-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-1-voice
Personality used for reb-match-1
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-1 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-1-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-2-voice
Personality used for reb-match-2
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-2 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-2-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-3-voice
Personality used for reb-match-3
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-3 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-3-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-redefine
@section emacspeak-redefine

This module redefines a few vital functions,
since advising them won't help.
Convention used:
To redefine function fn:
The original function will be renamed to Orig-fn.
A new function called emacspeak-fn will be defined.
 Finally, we will fset fn to emacspeak-fn
In the case of backward-char, forward-char, and self-insert-command
mere redefinition of the function will not do:
We will need to bind the new functions explicitly to the keys.

@subsection emacspeak-redefine Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-backward-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-backward-char  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-backward-char

@format
Backward-char redefined to speak char moved to. 

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-forward-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-forward-char  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-forward-char

@format
Forward-char redefined to speak char moved to. 

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-self-insert-command
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-self-insert-command  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-self-insert-command

@format
Insert a character.
Speaks the character if emacspeak-character-echo is true.
See  command emacspeak-toggle-word-echo bound to
C-e d w.
Speech flushes as you type.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-reftex
@section emacspeak-reftex

This module speech-enables refteex --
reftex is a minor mode that makes navigation of TeX
documents  possible via a table of contents buffer.

@node emacspeak-related
@section emacspeak-related

RELATED ==  Switch among related buffers (melpa).
Speech-enable interactive commands.

@node emacspeak-remote
@section emacspeak-remote

In a running emacspeak session,
nuke the running server and start talking to a remote speech server,
after prompting for host and port

@subsection emacspeak-remote Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-remote-connect-to-server
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-remote-connect-to-server  (host port)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-r
@kindex C-e M-r
@item <fn> M-r
@kindex <fn> M-r
@end table

@findex emacspeak-remote-connect-to-server

@format
Connect to and start using remote speech server running on
host host and listening on port port. Host is the hostname of the
remote server, typically the desktop machine. Port is the tcp
port that that host is listening on for speech requests.

(fn HOST PORT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-remote-edit-current-remote-hostname
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-remote-edit-current-remote-hostname   
@findex emacspeak-remote-edit-current-remote-hostname

@format
Interactively set up where we came from.
Value is persisted for use with ssh servers.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-remote-home
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-remote-home   
@findex emacspeak-remote-home

@format
Open ssh session to where we came from.
Uses value returned by ‘emacspeak-remote-get-current-remote-hostname’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-to-server
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-to-server   
@table @kbd
@item C-; q
@kindex C-; q
@item C-x @@ h q
@kindex C-x @@ h q
@end table

@findex emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-to-server

@format
Connect to remote server.
Does not prompt for host or port, but quietly uses the guesses
that appear as defaults when prompting. Use this once you are
sure the guesses are usually correct.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-via-ssh
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-via-ssh   
@findex emacspeak-remote-quick-connect-via-ssh

@format
Connect via ssh to remote Emacspeak server.
Server is specified via custom option ‘emacspeak-remote-default-ssh-server’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-remote-ssh-to-server
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-remote-ssh-to-server  (login host port)
@findex emacspeak-remote-ssh-to-server

@format
Open ssh session to where we came from.

(fn LOGIN HOST PORT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-remote Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-remote-default-ssh-server
Default ssh server to use for remote speech server.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-remote-hooks
List of hook functions that are run after
emacspeak is set to run as a remote application.
Use this to add actions you typically perform after you enter remote
mode.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-replace
@section emacspeak-replace

This module causes emacs' replacement functions to use voice locking

@subsection emacspeak-replace Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-replace-personality
Personality used in search and replace to indicate word
that is being replaced.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-rg
@section emacspeak-rg

RG ==  Emacs front-end to ripgrep (rg).

@subsection emacspeak-rg Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rg-context-personality
Personality used for rg-context-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rg-error-personality
Personality used for rg-error-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rg-file-tag-personality
Personality used for rg-file-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rg-filename-personality
Personality used for rg-filename-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rg-info-personality
Personality used for rg-info-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rg-match-personality
Personality used for rg-match-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rg-warning-personality
Personality used for rg-warning-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-rmail
@section emacspeak-rmail

emacspeak extensions to rmail

@subsection emacspeak-rmail Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-rmail-speak-current-message-labels
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-rmail-speak-current-message-labels   
@findex emacspeak-rmail-speak-current-message-labels

@format
Speak labels of current message
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-rmail-summarize-current-message
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-rmail-summarize-current-message   
@findex emacspeak-rmail-summarize-current-message

@format
Summarize current message
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-rpm
@section emacspeak-rpm

This module speech-enables rpm.el
rpm.el can be downloaded from
http://www.uni-karlsruhe.de/~Detlev.Zundel/download/rpm.el
and provides a nice interface to managing and browsing
rpm.

@node emacspeak-rpm-spec
@section emacspeak-rpm-spec

speech-enable rpm-spec-mode --part of Emacs 21 on RH 7.3

@subsection emacspeak-rpm-spec Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-dir-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-dir-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-doc-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-doc-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-ghost-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-ghost-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-macro-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-macro-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-package-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-package-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-tag-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-rst
@section emacspeak-rst

RST ==  rst-mode for editing rst text files.
This module speech-enables rst-mode.

@subsection emacspeak-rst Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-adornment-voice
Personality used for rst-adornment
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-block-voice
Personality used for rst-block
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-comment-voice
Personality used for rst-comment
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-definition-voice
Personality used for rst-definition
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-directive-voice
Personality used for rst-directive
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-emphasis1-voice
Personality used for rst-emphasis1
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-emphasis2-voice
Personality used for rst-emphasis2
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-external-voice
Personality used for rst-external
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-level-1-voice
Personality used for rst-level-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-level-2-voice
Personality used for rst-level-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-level-3-voice
Personality used for rst-level-3
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-level-4-voice
Personality used for rst-level-4
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-literal-voice
Personality used for rst-literal
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-reference-voice
Personality used for rst-reference
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rst-transition-voice
Personality used for rst-transition
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ruby
@section emacspeak-ruby

Provide additional advice to Ruby mode 

@node emacspeak-ses
@section emacspeak-ses

ses implements a simple spread sheet and is part of Emacs
This module speech-enables ses

@subsection emacspeak-ses Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-ses-backward-column-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ses-backward-column-and-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-ses-backward-column-and-summarize

@format
Move to previous column and summarize.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ses-backward-row-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ses-backward-row-and-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-ses-backward-row-and-summarize

@format
Move to previous row  and summarize.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ses-forward-column-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ses-forward-column-and-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-ses-forward-column-and-summarize

@format
Move to next column and summarize.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ses-forward-row-and-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ses-forward-row-and-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-ses-forward-row-and-summarize

@format
Move to next row and summarize.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ses-summarize-cell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ses-summarize-cell  (cell-name)
@findex emacspeak-ses-summarize-cell

@format
Summarize specified  cell.

(fn CELL-NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ses-summarize-current-cell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ses-summarize-current-cell  (&rest ignore)
@findex emacspeak-ses-summarize-current-cell

@format
Summarize current cell.

(fn &rest IGNORE)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-setup
@section emacspeak-setup

Entry point for Emacspeak.
The simplest and most basic way to start emacspeak is:
emacs -q -l <emacspeak-dir>/lisp/emacspeak-setup.el
The above starts a vanilla Emacs with just Emacspeak loaded.
Once the above has been verified to work,
You can  add
(load-library "emacspeak-setup")
To your .emacs file.
See tvr/emacs-startup.el in the Emacspeak Git repository for  my setup.

@subsection emacspeak-setup Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tts-use-notify-stream
Set to true to use a separate TTS stream for notifications.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-sgml-mode
@section emacspeak-sgml-mode

emacspeak extensions to sgml mode

@node emacspeak-sh-script
@section emacspeak-sh-script

This module speech-enables sh-script.el 

@node emacspeak-shx
@section emacspeak-shx

SHX ==  Shell Extras For emacs

@node emacspeak-sigbegone
@section emacspeak-sigbegone

Speech-enables package sigbegone --voiceify sigs in email and news

@subsection emacspeak-sigbegone Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sigbegone-exorcized-personality
Personality used for sigbegone-exorcized-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-slime
@section emacspeak-slime

 ;;; SLIME == Superior  Lisp Interaction Mode For Emacs

Slime is a powerful IDE for developing in Common Lisp and Clojure.
It's similar but more modern than package ILisp that I used as a
graduate student when developing AsTeR.

@subsection emacspeak-slime Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-catch-tag-personality
Personality used for sldb-catch-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-condition-personality
Personality used for sldb-condition-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-detailed-frame-line-personality
Personality used for sldb-detailed-frame-line-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-frame-label-personality
Personality used for sldb-frame-label-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-frame-line-personality
Personality used for sldb-frame-line-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-local-name-personality
Personality used for sldb-local-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-local-value-personality
Personality used for sldb-local-value-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-non-restartable-frame-line-personality
Personality used for sldb-non-restartable-frame-line-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-reference-personality
Personality used for sldb-reference-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-restart-number-personality
Personality used for sldb-restart-number-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-restart-personality
Personality used for sldb-restart-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-restart-type-personality
Personality used for sldb-restart-type-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-restartable-frame-line-personality
Personality used for sldb-restartable-frame-line-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-section-personality
Personality used for sldb-section-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sldb-topline-personality
Personality used for sldb-topline-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-apropos-label-voice
Personality used for slime-apropos-label
This personality uses  voice-monotone-light whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-light-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-apropos-symbol-voice
Personality used for slime-apropos-symbol
This personality uses  voice-monotone-light whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-light-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-error-personality
Personality used for slime-error-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-highlight-personality
Personality used for slime-highlight-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-inspector-action-personality
Personality used for slime-inspector-action-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-inspector-label-personality
Personality used for slime-inspector-label-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-inspector-topline-personality
Personality used for slime-inspector-topline-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-inspector-type-personality
Personality used for slime-inspector-type-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-inspector-value-personality
Personality used for slime-inspector-value-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-note-personality
Personality used for slime-note-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-reader-conditional-personality
Personality used for slime-reader-conditional-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-repl-input-personality
Personality used for slime-repl-input-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-repl-inputed-output-personality
Personality used for slime-repl-inputed-output-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-repl-output-mouseover-personality
Personality used for slime-repl-output-mouseover-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-repl-output-personality
Personality used for slime-repl-output-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-repl-prompt-personality
Personality used for slime-repl-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-repl-result-personality
Personality used for slime-repl-result-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-style-warning-personality
Personality used for slime-style-warning-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-slime-warning-personality
Personality used for slime-warning-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-smart-window
@section emacspeak-smart-window

SMART-WINDOW ==  Smart Window switching for Emacs

@node emacspeak-solitaire
@section emacspeak-solitaire

Auditory interface to solitaire

@subsection emacspeak-solitaire Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-solitaire-show-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-solitaire-show-column   
@findex emacspeak-solitaire-show-column

@format
Audio format current column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-solitaire-show-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-solitaire-show-row   
@findex emacspeak-solitaire-show-row

@format
Audio format current row.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-solitaire-speak-coordinates
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-solitaire-speak-coordinates   
@findex emacspeak-solitaire-speak-coordinates

@format
Speak coordinates of current position
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-sounds
@section emacspeak-sounds

This module provides the interface for generating auditory icons in emacspeak.
Design goal:
1) Auditory icons should be used to provide additional feedback,
not as a gimmick.
2) The interface should be usable at all times without the icons:
e.g. when on a machine without a sound card.
3) General principle for when to use an icon:
Convey information about events taking place in parallel.
For instance, if making a selection automatically moves the current focus
to the next choice,
We speak the next choice, while indicating the fact that something was selected with a sound cue.
 This interface will assume the availability of a shell command "play"
that can take one or more sound files and play them.
This module will also provide a mapping between names in the elisp world and actual sound files.
Modules that wish to use auditory icons should use these names, instead of actual file names.
As of Emacspeak 13.0, this module defines a themes
architecture for  auditory icons.
Sound files corresponding to a given theme are found in
appropriate subdirectories of emacspeak-sounds-directory

@subsection emacspeak-sounds Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-audio-setup
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-audio-setup  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e (
@kindex C-e (
@item <fn> (
@kindex <fn> (
@end table

@findex emacspeak-audio-setup

@format
Call appropriate audio environment set command.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-set-auditory-icon-player
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-set-auditory-icon-player  (player)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-a
@kindex C-e M-a
@item <fn> M-a
@kindex <fn> M-a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-set-auditory-icon-player

@format
Select  player used for producing auditory icons.
Recommended choices:

emacspeak-serve-auditory-icon for  the wave device.
emacspeak-queue-auditory-icon when using software TTS.

(fn PLAYER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sounds-reset-local-player
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sounds-reset-local-player   
@findex emacspeak-sounds-reset-local-player

@format
Ask Emacspeak to use a local audio player.
This lets me have Emacspeak switch to using audioplay on
solaris after I’ve used it for a while from a remote session
where it would use the more primitive speech-server based
audio player.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sounds-reset-sound
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sounds-reset-sound   
@findex emacspeak-sounds-reset-sound

@format
Reload sound drivers.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sounds-select-theme
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sounds-select-theme  (theme)
@table @kbd
@item C-e )
@kindex C-e )
@item <fn> )
@kindex <fn> )
@end table

@findex emacspeak-sounds-select-theme

@format
Select theme for auditory icons.

(fn THEME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-auditory-icons
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-auditory-icons  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-a
@kindex C-e C-a
@item <fn> C-a
@kindex <fn> C-a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-auditory-icons

@format
Toggle use of auditory icons.
Optional interactive PREFIX arg toggles global value.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-sounds Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-auditory-icon-function
*Function that plays auditory icons.
play : Launches play-program to play.
Serve: Send a command to the speech-server to play.
Queue : Add auditory icon to speech queue.
soxplay: Use sox to apply effect earwax for headphones.
Native : Use Emacs’ builtin sound support.
Use Serve when working with remote speech servers.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-play-args
Set this to nil if using paplay from pulseaudio.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-play-program
Name of executable that plays sound files. 

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sounds-default-theme
Default theme for auditory icons. 

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sounds-reset-snd-module-command
Command to reset sound module.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-soxplay-command
Name of play executable from SoX

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-speak
@section emacspeak-speak

This module defines the core speech services used by emacspeak.
It depends on the speech server interface modules
It protects other parts of emacspeak
from becoming dependent on the speech server modules

@subsection emacspeak-speak Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak--choose-completion
@deffn {Command} emacspeak--choose-completion   
@findex emacspeak--choose-completion

@format
Choose the completion at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-blink-matching-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-blink-matching-open   
@findex emacspeak-blink-matching-open

@format
Move cursor momentarily to the beginning of the sexp before point.
Also display match context in minibuffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-completion-pick-completion
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-completion-pick-completion   
@findex emacspeak-completion-pick-completion

@format
Pick completion and return safely where we came from.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-completions-move-to-completion-group
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-completions-move-to-completion-group   
@findex emacspeak-completions-move-to-completion-group

@format
Move to group of choices beginning with character last
typed. If no such group exists, then we try to search for that
char, or dont move. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-dial-dtk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-dial-dtk  (number)
@findex emacspeak-dial-dtk

@format
Prompt for and dial a phone NUMBER with the Dectalk.

(fn NUMBER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-execute-repeatedly
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-execute-repeatedly  (command)
@findex emacspeak-execute-repeatedly

@format
Execute COMMAND repeatedly.

(fn COMMAND)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-goto-percent
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-goto-percent  (percent)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-%
@kindex C-e M-%
@item <fn> M-%
@kindex <fn> M-%
@end table

@findex emacspeak-goto-percent

@format
Move to end  PERCENT of buffer like in View mode.
Display is centered at point.
Also set the mark at the position where point was.

(fn PERCENT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-launch-application
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-launch-application  (command)
@table @kbd
@item C-&
@kindex C-&
@end table

@findex emacspeak-launch-application

@format
Launch an application.
This command  is designed for use in a windowing environment like X.

(fn COMMAND)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-mark-backward-mark
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-mark-backward-mark   
@table @kbd
@item <C-up>
@kindex <C-up>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-mark-backward-mark

@format
Cycle backward through the mark ring.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-minibuffer-choose-completion
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-minibuffer-choose-completion   
@findex emacspeak-minibuffer-choose-completion

@format
Choose current completion.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-minibuffer-next-completion
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-minibuffer-next-completion   
@findex emacspeak-minibuffer-next-completion

@format
Move to next available minibuffer completion.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-minibuffer-previous-completion
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-minibuffer-previous-completion   
@findex emacspeak-minibuffer-previous-completion

@format
Move to previous available minibuffer completion.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-open-info
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-open-info   
@table @kbd
@item C-e TAB
@kindex C-e TAB
@item <fn> TAB
@kindex <fn> TAB
@end table

@findex emacspeak-open-info

@format
Open Emacspeak Info Manual.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-owindow-next-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-owindow-next-line  (count)
@table @kbd
@item ESC <down>
@kindex ESC <down>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-owindow-next-line

@format
Move to the next line in the other window and speak it.
Numeric prefix arg COUNT can specify number of lines to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-owindow-previous-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-owindow-previous-line  (count)
@table @kbd
@item ESC <up>
@kindex ESC <up>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-owindow-previous-line

@format
Move to the next line in the other window and speak it.
Numeric prefix arg COUNT specifies number of lines to move.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-owindow-scroll-down
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-owindow-scroll-down   
@table @kbd
@item ESC <prior>
@kindex ESC <prior>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-owindow-scroll-down

@format
Scroll down  the window that command ‘other-window’ would move to.
Speak the window contents after scrolling.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-owindow-scroll-up
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-owindow-scroll-up   
@table @kbd
@item ESC <next>
@kindex ESC <next>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-owindow-scroll-up

@format
Scroll up the window that command ‘other-window’ would move to.
Speak the window contents after scrolling.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-owindow-speak-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-owindow-speak-line   
@table @kbd
@item ESC <select>
@kindex ESC <select>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-owindow-speak-line

@format
Speak the current line in the other window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-read-next-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-read-next-line  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e <down>
@kindex C-e <down>
@item <fn> <down>
@kindex <fn> <down>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-read-next-line

@format
Read next line, specified by an offset, without moving.
Default is to read the next line. 

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-read-next-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-read-next-word  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-read-next-word

@format
Read next word, specified as a numeric  arg, without moving.
Default is to read the next word. 

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-read-previous-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-read-previous-line  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e <up>
@kindex C-e <up>
@item <fn> <up>
@kindex <fn> <up>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-read-previous-line

@format
Read previous line, specified by an offset, without moving.
Default is to read the previous line. 

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-read-previous-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-read-previous-word  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-read-previous-word

@format
Read previous word, specified as a prefix arg, without moving.
Default is to read the previous word. 

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-search   
@table @kbd
@item <search>
@kindex <search>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-search

@format
Call search defined in <search>.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-shell-command
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-shell-command  (command)
@findex emacspeak-shell-command

@format
Run shell command and speak its output.

(fn COMMAND)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-silence
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-silence   
@table @kbd
@item <silence>
@kindex <silence>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-silence

@format
Silence is golden. Stop speech, and pause/resume any media
streams. Runs ‘emacspeak-silence-hook’ which can be used to
configure which media players get silenced or paused/resumed.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-char  (char)
@findex emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-char

@format
Search forward from point until we hit char.
Speak text between point and the char we hit.

(fn CHAR)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-this-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-this-char   
@findex emacspeak-speak-and-skip-extent-upto-this-char

@format
Speak extent delimited by point and last character typed.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-browse-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-browse-buffer  (&optional browse)
@table @kbd
@item C-e ,
@kindex C-e ,
@item <fn> ,
@kindex <fn> ,
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-browse-buffer

@format
Browse current buffer.
Default is to speak chunk having current personality.
Interactive prefix arg ‘browse’  repeatedly browses  through
  chunks having same personality as the current text chunk.

(fn &optional BROWSE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-buffer  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e b
@kindex C-e b
@item <fn> b
@kindex <fn> b
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-buffer

@format
Speak current buffer  contents.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.
 If voice lock mode is on, the paragraphs in the buffer are
voice annotated first,  see command ‘emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs’.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-buffer-filename
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-buffer-filename  (&optional filename)
@table @kbd
@item C-e f
@kindex C-e f
@item <fn> f
@kindex <fn> f
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-buffer-filename

@format
Speak name of file being visited in current buffer.
Speak default directory if invoked in a dired buffer,
or when the buffer is not visiting any file.
Interactive prefix arg ‘filename’ speaks only the final path
component.
The result is put in the kill ring for convenience.

(fn &optional FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-buffer-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-buffer-interactively   
@table @kbd
@item C-e B
@kindex C-e B
@item <fn> B
@kindex <fn> B
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-buffer-interactively

@format
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire buffer.
’s’ to speak the start.
’r’ to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-char  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e c
@kindex C-e c
@item <fn> c
@kindex <fn> c
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-char

@format
Speak character under point.
Pronounces character phonetically unless  called with a PREFIX arg.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-char-name
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-char-name  (char)
@findex emacspeak-speak-char-name

@format
tell me what this is

(fn CHAR)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-completions-if-available
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-completions-if-available   
@findex emacspeak-speak-completions-if-available

@format
Speak completions if available.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-continuously
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-continuously   
@table @kbd
@item C-e RET
@kindex C-e RET
@item <fn> RET
@kindex <fn> RET
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-continuously

@format
Speak a buffer continuously.
First prompts using the minibuffer for the kind of action to
perform after speaking each chunk.  E.G.  speak a line at a time
etc.  Speaking commences at current buffer position.  Pressing
C-g breaks out, leaving point on last chunk that
was spoken.  Any other key continues to speak the buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-current-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-current-column   
@table @kbd
@item C-e =
@kindex C-e =
@item <fn> =
@kindex <fn> =
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-current-column

@format
Speak the current column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-current-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-current-field   
@findex emacspeak-speak-current-field

@format
Speak current field.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-current-kill
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-current-kill  (count)
@table @kbd
@item C-e k
@kindex C-e k
@item <fn> k
@kindex <fn> k
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-current-kill

@format
Speak the current kill entry.
This is the text that will be yanked in
by the next <S-insertchar>. Prefix numeric arg, COUNT, specifies that the
text that will be yanked as a result of a <S-insertchar> followed by count-1
M-x yank-pop be spoken. The kill number that is spoken says what
numeric prefix arg to give to command yank.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-current-mark
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-current-mark  (count)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-SPC
@kindex C-e C-SPC
@item C-e C-@@
@kindex C-e C-@@
@item <fn> C-SPC
@kindex <fn> C-SPC
@item <fn> C-@@
@kindex <fn> C-@@
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-current-mark

@format
Speak the line containing the mark.
With no argument, speaks the
line containing the mark--this is where ‘exchange-point-and-mark’
C-x C-x would jump.  Numeric prefix arg ’COUNT’ speaks
line containing mark ’n’ where ’n’ is one less than the number of
times one has to jump using ‘set-mark-command’ to get to this marked
position.  The location of the mark is indicated by an aural highlight
achieved by a change in voice personality.

(fn COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-current-percentage
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-current-percentage   
@table @kbd
@item C-e %
@kindex C-e %
@item <fn> %
@kindex <fn> %
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-current-percentage

@format
Announce the percentage into the current buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-current-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-current-window   
@findex emacspeak-speak-current-window

@format
Speak contents of current window.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-date-as-seconds
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-date-as-seconds  (time)
@findex emacspeak-speak-date-as-seconds

@format
Read time value as a human-readable string, return seconds.
Seconds value is also placed in the kill-ring.

(fn TIME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-display-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-display-char  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-speak-display-char

@format
Display char under point using current speech display table.
Behavior is the same as command ‘emacspeak-speak-char’
bound to C-e c
for characters in the range 0--127.
Optional argument PREFIX  specifies that the character should be spoken phonetically.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-face-interval-and-move
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-face-interval-and-move   
@findex emacspeak-speak-face-interval-and-move

@format
Speaks region delimited by text in current face, and moves past the chunk.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-front-of-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-front-of-buffer   
@findex emacspeak-speak-front-of-buffer

@format
Speak   the buffer from start to   point
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-header-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-header-line   
@table @kbd
@item C-e SPC
@kindex C-e SPC
@item <fn> SPC
@kindex <fn> SPC
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-header-line

@format
Speak header line if set.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-help
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-help  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e h
@kindex C-e h
@item <fn> h
@kindex <fn> h
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-help

@format
Speak help buffer if one present.
With prefix arg, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-help-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-help-interactively   
@findex emacspeak-speak-help-interactively

@format
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire help.
’s’ to speak the start.
’r’ to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire help.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-hostname
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-hostname   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-h
@kindex C-e M-h
@item <fn> M-h
@kindex <fn> M-h
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-hostname

@format
Speak host name.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-line  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e l
@kindex C-e l
@item <fn> l
@kindex <fn> l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-line

@format
Speaks current line.  With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the line
from point.  Negative prefix optional arg speaks from start of line to
point.  Voicifies if option ‘voice-lock-mode’ is on.  Indicates
indentation with a tone if audio indentation is in use.  Indicates
position of point with an aural highlight if option
‘emacspeak-show-point’ is turned on --see command
‘emacspeak-show-point’ bound to M-x emacspeak-show-point.  Lines that
start hidden blocks of text, e.g.  outline header lines, or header
lines of blocks created by command ‘emacspeak-hide-or-expose-block’
are indicated with auditory icon ellipses.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-line-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-line-interactively   
@table @kbd
@item C-e L
@kindex C-e L
@item <fn> L
@kindex <fn> L
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-line-interactively

@format
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire line.
’s’ to speak the start.
’r’ to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-line-number
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-line-number   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-l
@kindex C-e C-l
@item <fn> C-l
@kindex <fn> C-l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-line-number

@format
Print the current buffer line number and narrowed line number of point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter  (filter)
@table @kbd
@item C-e |
@kindex C-e |
@item <fn> |
@kindex <fn> |
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter

@format
Set up filter for selectively speaking or ignoring portions of lines.
The filter is specified as a list of pairs.
For example, to filter  columns 1 -- 10 and 20 -- 25,
specify filter as
((0 9) (20 25)). Filter settings are persisted across sessions.  A
persisted filter is used as the default when prompting for a filter.
This allows one to accumulate a set of filters for specific files like
/var/adm/messages and /var/adm/maillog over time.
Option emacspeak-speak-line-invert-filter determines
the sense of the filter. 

(fn FILTER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-load-directory-settings
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-load-directory-settings  (&optional directory)
@findex emacspeak-speak-load-directory-settings

@format
Load a directory specific Emacspeak settings file.
This is typically used to load up settings that are specific to
an electronic book consisting of many files in the same
directory.

(fn &optional DIRECTORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-message-again
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-message-again  (&optional from-message-cache)
@table @kbd
@item C-e a
@kindex C-e a
@item <fn> a
@kindex <fn> a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-message-again

@format
Speak the last message from Emacs once again.
The message is also placed in the kill ring for convenient yanking
if ‘emacspeak-speak-message-again-should-copy-to-kill-ring’ is set.

(fn &optional FROM-MESSAGE-CACHE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-message-at-time
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-message-at-time  (time message)
@table @kbd
@item C-e @@
@kindex C-e @@
@item <fn> @@
@kindex <fn> @@
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-message-at-time

@format
Set up ring-at-time to speak message at specified time.
Provides simple stop watch functionality in addition to other things.
See documentation for command run-at-time for details on time-spec.

(fn TIME MESSAGE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-microseconds-since-epoch
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-microseconds-since-epoch  (ms)
@findex emacspeak-speak-microseconds-since-epoch

@format
Speaks time value specified as microseconds  since epoch, e.g. as from float-time.

(fn MS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-milliseconds-since-epoch
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-milliseconds-since-epoch  (ms)
@findex emacspeak-speak-milliseconds-since-epoch

@format
Speaks time value specified as milliseconds  since epoch, e.g. as from float-time.

(fn MS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-minibuffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-minibuffer  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-speak-minibuffer

@format
Speak the minibuffer contents
 With prefix arg, speaks the rest of the buffer from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of buffer to point.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-minor-mode-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-minor-mode-line  (&optional copy-as-kill)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M
@kindex C-e M
@item <fn> M
@kindex <fn> M
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-minor-mode-line

@format
Speak the minor mode-information.
Optional  interactive prefix arg ‘copy-as-kill’ copies spoken info to kill ring.

(fn &optional COPY-AS-KILL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-mode-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-mode-line  (&optional buffer-info)
@table @kbd
@item C-e m
@kindex C-e m
@item <fn> m
@kindex <fn> m
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-mode-line

@format
Speak the mode-line.
Speaks header-line if that is set when called non-interactively.
Interactive prefix arg speaks buffer info.

(fn &optional BUFFER-INFO)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-next-face-chunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-next-face-chunk   
@findex emacspeak-speak-next-face-chunk

@format
Moves to the front of next chunk having current face.
Speak that chunk after moving.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-next-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-next-field   
@table @kbd
@item C-e >
@kindex C-e >
@item <fn> >
@kindex <fn> >
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-next-field

@format
Move to and speak next field.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-next-personality-chunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-next-personality-chunk   
@findex emacspeak-speak-next-personality-chunk

@format
Moves to the front of next chunk having current personality.
Speak that chunk after moving.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-next-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-next-window   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-n
@kindex C-e C-n
@item <fn> C-n
@kindex <fn> C-n
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-next-window

@format
Speak the next window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-other-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-other-buffer  (buffer)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-b
@kindex C-e M-b
@item <fn> M-b
@kindex <fn> M-b
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-other-buffer

@format
Speak specified buffer.
Useful to listen to a buffer without switching  contexts.

(fn BUFFER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-other-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-other-window  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-speak-other-window

@format
Speak contents of ‘other’ window.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
Semantics  of ‘other’ is the same as for the builtin Emacs command
‘other-window’.
Optional argument ARG  specifies ‘other’ window to speak.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-page  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e [
@kindex C-e [
@item <fn> [
@kindex <fn> [
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-page

@format
Speak a page.
With prefix ARG, speaks rest of current page.
Negative prefix arg will read from start of current page to point.
If option  ‘voice-lock-mode’ is on, then it will use any defined personality.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-page-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-page-interactively   
@table @kbd
@item C-e ]
@kindex C-e ]
@item <fn> ]
@kindex <fn> ]
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-page-interactively

@format
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire page.
’s’ to speak the start.
’r’ to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire page.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-paragraph
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-paragraph  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e @{
@kindex C-e @{
@item C-e p
@kindex C-e p
@item <fn> @{
@kindex <fn> @{
@item <fn> p
@kindex <fn> p
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-paragraph

@format
Speak paragraph.
With prefix arg, speaks rest of current paragraph.
Negative prefix arg will read from start of current paragraph to point.
If voice-lock-mode is on, then it will use any defined personality. 

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-paragraph-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-paragraph-interactively   
@table @kbd
@item C-e P
@kindex C-e P
@item <fn> P
@kindex <fn> P
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-paragraph-interactively

@format
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire paragraph.
’s’ to speak the start.
’r’ to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire paragraph.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-preceding-char
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-preceding-char   
@findex emacspeak-speak-preceding-char

@format
Speak character before point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-predefined-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-predefined-window  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e 9
@kindex C-e 9
@item C-e 8
@kindex C-e 8
@item C-e 7
@kindex C-e 7
@item C-e 6
@kindex C-e 6
@item C-e 5
@kindex C-e 5
@item C-e 4
@kindex C-e 4
@item C-e 3
@kindex C-e 3
@item C-e 2
@kindex C-e 2
@item C-e 1
@kindex C-e 1
@item C-e 0
@kindex C-e 0
@item <fn> 9
@kindex <fn> 9
@item <fn> 8
@kindex <fn> 8
@item <fn> 7
@kindex <fn> 7
@item <fn> 6
@kindex <fn> 6
@item <fn> 5
@kindex <fn> 5
@item <fn> 4
@kindex <fn> 4
@item <fn> 3
@kindex <fn> 3
@item <fn> 2
@kindex <fn> 2
@item <fn> 1
@kindex <fn> 1
@item <fn> 0
@kindex <fn> 0
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-predefined-window

@format
Speak one of the first 10 windows on the screen.
Speaks entire window irrespective of point.
In general, you’ll never have Emacs split the screen into more than
two or three.
Argument ARG determines the ’other’ window to speak.
Semantics  of ‘other’ is the same as for the builtin Emacs command
‘other-window’.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-previous-face-chunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-previous-face-chunk   
@findex emacspeak-speak-previous-face-chunk

@format
Moves to the front of previous chunk having current face.
Speak that chunk after moving.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-previous-field
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-previous-field   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <
@kindex C-e <
@item <fn> <
@kindex <fn> <
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-previous-field

@format
Move to previous field and speak it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-previous-personality-chunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-previous-personality-chunk   
@findex emacspeak-speak-previous-personality-chunk

@format
Moves to the front of previous chunk having current personality.
Speak that chunk after moving.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-previous-window
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-previous-window   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-p
@kindex C-e C-p
@item <fn> C-p
@kindex <fn> C-p
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-previous-window

@format
Speak the previous window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-rectangle
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-rectangle  (start end)
@table @kbd
@item C-e R
@kindex C-e R
@item <fn> R
@kindex <fn> R
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-rectangle

@format
Speak a rectangle of text.
Rectangle is delimited by point and mark.
When call from a program,
arguments specify the START and END of the rectangle.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-region  (start end)
@table @kbd
@item C-e r
@kindex C-e r
@item <fn> r
@kindex <fn> r
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-region

@format
Speak region.
Argument START  and END specify region to speak.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer   
@table @kbd
@item C-e n
@kindex C-e n
@item <fn> n
@kindex <fn> n
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer

@format
Speak remainder of the buffer starting at point
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-seconds-since-epoch
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-seconds-since-epoch  (seconds)
@findex emacspeak-speak-seconds-since-epoch

@format
Speaks time value specified as seconds  since epoch, e.g. as from float-time.

(fn SECONDS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-sentence
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-sentence  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-speak-sentence

@format
Speak current sentence.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the sentence  from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of sentence to point.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-set-display-table
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-set-display-table  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-speak-set-display-table

@format
Sets up buffer specific speech display table that controls how
special characters are spoken. Interactive prefix argument causes
setting to be global.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-set-mode-punctuations
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-set-mode-punctuations  (setting)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d m
@kindex C-e d m
@item <fn> d m
@kindex <fn> d m
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-set-mode-punctuations

@format
Set punctuation mode for all buffers in current mode.

(fn SETTING)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-sexp
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-sexp  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-speak-sexp

@format
Speak current sexp.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the sexp  from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of sexp to point.
If option  ‘voice-lock-mode’ is on, then uses the personality.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-sexp-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-sexp-interactively   
@table @kbd
@item C-e "
@kindex C-e "
@item <fn> "
@kindex <fn> "
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-sexp-interactively

@format
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire sexp.
’s’ to speak the start.
’r’ to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire sexp.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces  (&optional address)
@table @kbd
@item C-e I
@kindex C-e I
@item <fn> I
@kindex <fn> I
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces

@format
Shows all active network interfaces in the echo area.
With interactive prefix argument ADDRESS it prompts for a
specific interface and shows its address. The address is
also copied to the kill ring for convenient yanking.

(fn &optional ADDRESS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-skim-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-skim-buffer   
@findex emacspeak-speak-skim-buffer

@format
Skim the current buffer  a paragraph at a time.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-skim-next-paragraph
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-skim-next-paragraph   
@findex emacspeak-speak-skim-next-paragraph

@format
Skim next paragraph.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-skim-paragraph
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-skim-paragraph   
@findex emacspeak-speak-skim-paragraph

@format
Skim paragraph.
Skimming a paragraph results in the speech speeding up after
the first clause.
Speech is scaled by the value of dtk-speak-skim-scale
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-spaces-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-spaces-at-point   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-M-SPC
@kindex C-e C-M-SPC
@item C-e C-M-@@
@kindex C-e C-M-@@
@item <fn> C-M-SPC
@kindex <fn> C-M-SPC
@item <fn> C-M-@@
@kindex <fn> C-M-@@
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-spaces-at-point

@format
Speak the white space at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-spell-current-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-spell-current-word   
@findex emacspeak-speak-spell-current-word

@format
Spell word at  point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-text-range
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-text-range  (property)
@findex emacspeak-speak-text-range

@format
Speak text range identified by this PROPERTY.

(fn PROPERTY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-this-face-chunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-this-face-chunk   
@findex emacspeak-speak-this-face-chunk

@format
Speak chunk of text around point that has current face.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-this-personality-chunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-this-personality-chunk   
@findex emacspeak-speak-this-personality-chunk

@format
Speak chunk of text around point that has current
personality.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-time
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-time  (&optional world)
@table @kbd
@item C-e t
@kindex C-e t
@item <fn> t
@kindex <fn> t
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-time

@format
Speak the time.
Optional interactive prefix arg ‘C-u’invokes world clock.
Timezone is specified using minibuffer completion.
Second interactive prefix sets clock to new timezone.

(fn &optional WORLD)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-version
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-version  (&optional speak-rev)
@table @kbd
@item C-e V
@kindex C-e V
@item <fn> V
@kindex <fn> V
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-version

@format
Announce version information for running emacspeak.
Optional interactive prefix arg ‘speak-rev’ speaks only the Git revision number.

(fn &optional SPEAK-REV)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-visual-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-visual-line   
@findex emacspeak-speak-visual-line

@format
Speaks current visual line.
Cues the start of a physical line with auditory icon ‘left’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs   
@findex emacspeak-speak-voice-annotate-paragraphs

@format
Locate paragraphs and voice annotate the first word.
Here, paragraph is taken to mean a chunk of text preceded by a blank line.
Useful to do this before you listen to an entire buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-which-function
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-which-function   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-w
@kindex C-e M-w
@item <fn> M-w
@kindex <fn> M-w
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-which-function

@format
Speak which function we are on.  Uses which-function from
which-func without turning that mode on.  We actually use
semantic to do the work.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-window-information
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-window-information   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-w
@kindex C-e C-w
@item <fn> C-w
@kindex <fn> C-w
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-window-information

@format
Speaks information about current window.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-word  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e w
@kindex C-e w
@item <fn> w
@kindex <fn> w
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-word

@format
Speak current word.
With prefix ARG, speaks the rest of the word from point.
Negative prefix arg speaks from start of word to point.
If executed  on the same buffer position a second time, the word is
spelled out  instead of being spoken.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-word-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-word-interactively   
@findex emacspeak-speak-word-interactively

@format
Speak the start of, rest of, or the entire word.
’s’ to speak the start.
’r’ to speak the rest.
any other key to speak entire word.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-world-clock
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-world-clock  (zone &optional set)
@findex emacspeak-speak-world-clock

@format
Display current date and time  for specified zone.
Optional second arg ‘set’ sets the TZ environment variable as well.

(fn ZONE &optional SET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-switch-to-reference-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-switch-to-reference-buffer   
@findex emacspeak-switch-to-reference-buffer

@format
Switch back to buffer that generated completions.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-action-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-action-mode  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-toggle-action-mode

@format
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  action mode.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d i
@kindex C-e d i
@item <fn> d i
@kindex <fn> d i
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation

@format
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  audio indentation.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
Specifying the method of indentation as ‘tones’
results in the Dectalk producing a tone whose length is a function of the
line’s indentation.  Specifying ‘speak’
results in the number of initial spaces being spoken.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-character-echo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-character-echo  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d k
@kindex C-e d k
@item <fn> d k
@kindex <fn> d k
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-character-echo

@format
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  character echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-q
@kindex C-e C-q
@item <fn> C-q
@kindex <fn> C-q
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak

@format
Toggle state of Emacspeak comint autospeak.
When turned on, comint output is automatically spoken.  Turn this on if
you want your shell to speak its results.  Interactive
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-comint-output-monitor
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-comint-output-monitor  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e o
@kindex C-e o
@item <fn> o
@kindex <fn> o
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-comint-output-monitor

@format
Toggle state of Emacspeak comint monitor.
When turned on, comint output is automatically spoken.  Turn this on if
you want your shell to speak its results.  Interactive
PREFIX arg means toggle the global default value, and then
set the current local value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-header-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-header-line   
@findex emacspeak-toggle-header-line

@format
Toggle Emacspeak’s default header line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-line-echo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-line-echo  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d l
@kindex C-e d l
@item <fn> d l
@kindex <fn> d l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-line-echo

@format
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  line echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-m
@kindex C-e M-m
@item <fn> M-m
@kindex <fn> M-m
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert

@format
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  mail alert.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
Turning on this option results in Emacspeak producing an auditory icon
indicating the arrival  of new mail when displaying the mode line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-show-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-show-point  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-d
@kindex C-e C-d
@item <fn> C-d
@kindex <fn> C-d
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-show-point

@format
Toggle state of  Emacspeak-show-point.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-speak-line-invert-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-speak-line-invert-filter  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e \
@kindex C-e \
@item <fn> \
@kindex <fn> \
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-speak-line-invert-filter

@format
Toggle state of   how column filter is interpreted.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e q
@kindex C-e q
@item <fn> q
@kindex <fn> q
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages

@format
Toggle the state of whether emacspeak echoes messages.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-toggle-word-echo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-toggle-word-echo  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d w
@kindex C-e d w
@item <fn> d w
@kindex <fn> d w
@end table

@findex emacspeak-toggle-word-echo

@format
Toggle state of  Emacspeak  word echo.
Interactive PREFIX arg means toggle  the global default value, and then set the
current local  value to the result.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-use-customized-blink-paren
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-use-customized-blink-paren   
@findex emacspeak-use-customized-blink-paren

@format
A customized blink-paren to speak  matching opening paren.
We need to call this in case Emacs is anal and loads its own
builtin blink-paren function which does not talk.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-view-notifications
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-view-notifications   
@table @kbd
@item C-h T
@kindex C-h T
@item <f1> T
@kindex <f1> T
@item <help> T
@kindex <help> T
@end table

@findex emacspeak-view-notifications

@format
Display notifications.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-voiceify-rectangle
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-voiceify-rectangle  (start end &optional personality)
@findex emacspeak-voiceify-rectangle

@format
Voicify the current rectangle.
When calling from a program,arguments are
START END personality
Prompts for PERSONALITY  with completion when called interactively.

(fn START END &optional PERSONALITY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-voiceify-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-voiceify-region  (start end &optional personality)
@findex emacspeak-voiceify-region

@format
Voicify the current region.
When calling from a program,arguments are
START END personality.
Prompts for PERSONALITY  with completion when called interactively.

(fn START END &optional PERSONALITY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-zap-tts
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-zap-tts   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d z
@kindex C-e d z
@item <fn> d z
@kindex <fn> d z
@end table

@findex emacspeak-zap-tts

@format
Send this command to the TTS directly.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-speak Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-audio-indentation
Option indicating if line indentation is cued.
If non-nil , then speaking a line indicates its indentation.
You can use  command ‘emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation’ bound
to C-e d i to toggle this
setting..

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-audio-indentation-method
*Current technique used to cue indentation.  Default is
‘speak’.  You can specify ‘tone’ for producing a beep
indicating the indentation.  Automatically becomes local in
any buffer where it is set.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-character-echo
If t, then emacspeak echoes characters  as you type.
You can
use C-e d k to toggle this
setting.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-comint-autospeak
Says if comint output is automatically spoken.
You can use
  ‘emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak‘ bound to
  C-e C-q to toggle this
setting.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-decoration-rule
*Regular expressions to match lines that are purely
decorative ascii.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-horizontal-rule
*Regular expression to match horizontal rules in ascii
text.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-line-echo
If t, then emacspeak echoes lines as you type.
You can use C-e d l to set this
option.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mail-alert
*Option to indicate cueing of new mail.
If t, emacspeak will alert you about newly arrived mail
with an auditory icon when
displaying the mode line.
You can use command
‘emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert’ bound to
C-e M-m to set this option.
If you have online access to a voicemail drop, you can have a
  voice-mail alert set up by specifying the location of the
  voice-mail drop via custom option
emacspeak-voicemail-spool-file.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mail-alert-interval
Interval in seconds between mail alerts for the same pending
  message.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mail-spool-file
Mail spool file examined  to alert you about newly
arrived mail.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-search
Default search engine.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-silence-hook
Functions run after emacspeak-silence is called.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-directory-settings
*Name of file that holds directory specific settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-embedded-url-pattern
Pattern to recognize embedded URLs.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-filter-persistent-store
File where emacspeak filters are persisted.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-line-column-filter
*List that specifies columns to be filtered.
The list when set holds pairs of start-col.end-col pairs
that specifies the columns that should not be spoken.
Each column contains a single character --this is inspired
by cut -c on UNIX.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-line-invert-filter
Non-nil means the sense of ‘filter’ is inverted when filtering
columns in a line --see
command emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-load-directory-settings-quietly
*User option that affects loading of directory specific settings.
If set to T,Emacspeak will not prompt before loading
directory specific settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-maximum-line-length
*Threshold for determining ‘long’ lines.
Emacspeak will ask for confirmation before speaking lines
that are longer than this length.  This is to avoid accidentally
opening a binary file and torturing the speech synthesizer
with a long string of gibberish.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-messages
*Option indicating if messages are spoken.  If nil,
emacspeak will not speak messages as they are echoed to the
message area.  You can use command
‘emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages’ bound to
C-e q.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-paragraph-personality
*Personality used to mark start of paragraph.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-space-regexp
Pattern that matches white space.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-time-format-string
*Format string that specifies how the time should be spoken.
See the documentation for function
‘format-time-string’

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-zoneinfo-directory
Directory containing timezone data.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-unspeakable-rule
*Pattern to match lines of special chars.
This is a regular expression that matches lines containing only
non-alphanumeric characters.  emacspeak will generate a tone
instead of speaking such lines when punctuation mode is set
to some.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-use-header-line
Use default header line defined  by Emacspeak for buffers that
dont customize the header.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voicemail-spool-file
Mail spool file examined  to alert you about newly
arrived voicemail.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-word-echo
If t, then emacspeak echoes words as you type.
You can use C-e d w to toggle this
option.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-speedbar
@section emacspeak-speedbar

This module advises speedbar.el for use with Emacs.  The
latest speedbar can be obtained from
ftp://ftp.ultranet.com/pub/zappo/ This module ensures
that speedbar works smoothly outside a windowing system
in addition to speech enabling all interactive
commands. Emacspeak also adds an Emacspeak environment
specific entry point to speedbar
--emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar-- and binds this

@subsection emacspeak-speedbar Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-speedbar-click
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speedbar-click   
@findex emacspeak-speedbar-click

@format
Does the equivalent of the mouse click from the keyboard
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar   
@findex emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar

@format
Switch to the speedbar
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-speedbar Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-button-personality
personality used for speedbar buttons

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-default-personality
Default personality used in speedbar buffers

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-directory-personality
Speedbar personality for directory buttons

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-file-personality
Personality used for file buttons

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-highlight-personality
Personality used for for speedbar highlight.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-selected-personality
Personality used to indicate speedbar selection

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-tag-personality
Personality used for speedbar tags

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-sql
@section emacspeak-sql

This module speech enables sql-mode--
available from
http://paddington.ic.uva.nl/public/sql-modes.zip
sql-mode.el implemented by the above package
sets up an Emacs to SQL interface where you can
interactively evaluate SQL expressions.

@node emacspeak-sudoku
@section emacspeak-sudoku

Playing SuDoku using speech output.
Written to discover what type of feedback one needs for  this
task.
See http://emacspeak.blogspot.com/2006/02/playing-sudoku-using-auditory-feedback.html

@subsection emacspeak-sudoku Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-board-columns-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-board-columns-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-board-columns-summarize

@format
Summarize columns --- speaks number of remaining cells.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-board-distribution-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-board-distribution-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-board-distribution-summarize

@format
Shows distribution of filled numbers.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-board-rows-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-board-rows-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-board-rows-summarize

@format
Summarize rows --- speaks number of remaining cells.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-board-sub-squares-summarize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-board-sub-squares-summarize   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-board-sub-squares-summarize

@format
Summarize sub-squares --- speaks number of remaining cells.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-board-summarizer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-board-summarizer   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-board-summarizer

@format
Dispatch to  appropriate summarizer.

d   Number Distribution
r   Row Distribution
c   Column Distribution
s   Sub-square Distribution.

@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-down-sub-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-down-sub-square   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-down-sub-square

@format
Move to top-left corner of  sub-square below current one.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-column   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-column

@format
Erase current column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-row   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-row

@format
Erase current row.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-sub-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-sub-square   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-erase-current-sub-square

@format
Erase current sub-square.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-hint
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-hint   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-hint

@format
Provide hint for current cell.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-history-pop
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-history-pop   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-history-pop

@format
Pop saved state off stack and redraw board.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-history-push
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-history-push   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-history-push

@format
Push current state on to history stack.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-how-many-remaining
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-how-many-remaining   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-how-many-remaining

@format
Speak number of remaining squares to fill.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-next-sub-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-next-sub-square   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-next-sub-square

@format
Move to top-left corner of next sub-square.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-previous-sub-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-previous-sub-square   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-previous-sub-square

@format
Move to top-left corner of previous sub-square.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-cell-coordinates
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-cell-coordinates   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-cell-coordinates

@format
speak current cell coordinates.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-cell-value
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-cell-value   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-cell-value

@format
Speak value in current cell.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-column   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-column

@format
Speak current column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-row   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-row

@format
Speak current row.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-sub-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-sub-square   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-current-sub-square

@format
Speak current sub-square.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-column   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-column

@format
Speaks number of remaining cells in current column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-row   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-row

@format
Speaks number of remaining cells in current row.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-sub-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-sub-square   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-speak-remaining-in-sub-square

@format
Speaks number of remaining cells in current sub-square.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-sudoku-up-sub-square
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-sudoku-up-sub-square   
@findex emacspeak-sudoku-up-sub-square

@format
Move to top-left corner of  sub-square above current one.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-supercite
@section emacspeak-supercite

Speech-enable supercite.

@node emacspeak-table
@section emacspeak-table

Implements a module that provides a high level interface to
tabulated information.

@node emacspeak-table-ui
@section emacspeak-table-ui

User interface to tables

@subsection emacspeak-table-ui Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-kill-ring
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-kill-ring   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t w
@kindex C-e C-t w
@item <fn> C-t w
@kindex <fn> C-t w
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-kill-ring

@format
Copy current table element to kill ring.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-register
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-register  (&rest rest)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t x
@kindex C-e C-t x
@item <fn> C-t x
@kindex <fn> C-t x
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-register

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-emacspeak-table-copy-current-element-to-register’

Copy current table element to specified register.

(fn REGISTER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-copy-to-clipboard
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-copy-to-clipboard   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t k
@kindex C-e C-t k
@item <fn> C-t k
@kindex <fn> C-t k
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-copy-to-clipboard

@format
Copy table in current buffer to the table clipboard.
Current buffer must be in emacspeak-table mode.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region  (start end)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-i
@kindex C-e M-i
@item <fn> M-i
@kindex <fn> M-i
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region

@format
Recognize tabular data in current region and display it in table
browsing mode in a a separate buffer.
emacspeak table mode is designed to let you browse tabular data using
all the power of the two-dimensional spatial layout while giving you
sufficient contextual information.  The tables subdirectory of the
emacspeak distribution contains some sample tables --these are the
CalTrain schedules.  Execute command ‘describe-mode’ bound to
C-h m in a buffer that is in emacspeak table mode to read
the documentation on the table browser.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-find-csv-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-find-csv-file  (filename)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t ,
@kindex C-e C-t ,
@item <fn> C-t ,
@kindex <fn> C-t ,
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-find-csv-file

@format
Process a csv (comma separated values) file.
The processed  data is presented using emacspeak table navigation. 

(fn FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-find-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-find-file  (filename)
@findex emacspeak-table-find-file

@format
Open a file containing table data and display it in table mode.
emacspeak table mode is designed to let you browse tabular data using
all the power of the two-dimensional spatial layout while giving you
sufficient contextual information.  The etc/tables subdirectory of the
emacspeak distribution contains some sample tables --these are the
CalTrain schedules.  Execute command ‘describe-mode’ bound to
C-h m in a buffer that is in emacspeak table mode to read
the documentation on the table browser.

(fn FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-goto
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-goto  (row column)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t j
@kindex C-e C-t j
@item <fn> C-t j
@kindex <fn> C-t j
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-goto

@format
Prompt for a table cell coordinates and jump to it.

(fn ROW COLUMN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-goto-bottom
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-goto-bottom   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t B
@kindex C-e C-t B
@item <fn> C-t B
@kindex <fn> C-t B
@item C-e C-t M->
@kindex C-e C-t M->
@item <fn> C-t M->
@kindex <fn> C-t M->
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-goto-bottom

@format
Goes to the bottom of the current column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-goto-left
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-goto-left   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t A
@kindex C-e C-t A
@item C-e C-t <
@kindex C-e C-t <
@item <fn> C-t A
@kindex <fn> C-t A
@item <fn> C-t <
@kindex <fn> C-t <
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-goto-left

@format
Goes to the left of the current row.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-goto-right
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-goto-right   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t E
@kindex C-e C-t E
@item C-e C-t >
@kindex C-e C-t >
@item <fn> C-t E
@kindex <fn> C-t E
@item <fn> C-t >
@kindex <fn> C-t >
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-goto-right

@format
Goes to the right of the current row.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-goto-top
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-goto-top   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t T
@kindex C-e C-t T
@item <fn> C-t T
@kindex <fn> C-t T
@item C-e C-t M-<
@kindex C-e C-t M-<
@item <fn> C-t M-<
@kindex <fn> C-t M-<
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-goto-top

@format
Goes to the top of the current column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-next-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-next-column  (&optional count)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t TAB
@kindex C-e C-t TAB
@item C-e C-t C-f
@kindex C-e C-t C-f
@item C-e C-t <right>
@kindex C-e C-t <right>
@item <fn> C-t TAB
@kindex <fn> C-t TAB
@item <fn> C-t C-f
@kindex <fn> C-t C-f
@item <fn> C-t <right>
@kindex <fn> C-t <right>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-next-column

@format
Move to the next column if possible

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-next-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-next-row  (&optional count)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t n
@kindex C-e C-t n
@item C-e C-t C-n
@kindex C-e C-t C-n
@item C-e C-t <down>
@kindex C-e C-t <down>
@item <fn> C-t n
@kindex <fn> C-t n
@item <fn> C-t C-n
@kindex <fn> C-t C-n
@item <fn> C-t <down>
@kindex <fn> C-t <down>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-next-row

@format
Move to the next row if possible

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-paste-from-clipboard
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-paste-from-clipboard   
@findex emacspeak-table-paste-from-clipboard

@format
Paste the emacspeak table clipboard into the current buffer.
Use the major  mode of this buffer to  decide what kind of table
markup to use.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-previous-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-previous-column  (&optional count)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t C-b
@kindex C-e C-t C-b
@item C-e C-t <left>
@kindex C-e C-t <left>
@item C-e C-t <S-tab>
@kindex C-e C-t <S-tab>
@item <fn> C-t C-b
@kindex <fn> C-t C-b
@item <fn> C-t <left>
@kindex <fn> C-t <left>
@item <fn> C-t <S-tab>
@kindex <fn> C-t <S-tab>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-previous-column

@format
Move to the previous column  if possible

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-previous-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-previous-row  (&optional count)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t p
@kindex C-e C-t p
@item C-e C-t C-p
@kindex C-e C-t C-p
@item C-e C-t <up>
@kindex C-e C-t <up>
@item <fn> C-t p
@kindex <fn> C-t p
@item <fn> C-t C-p
@kindex <fn> C-t C-p
@item <fn> C-t <up>
@kindex <fn> C-t <up>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-previous-row

@format
Move to the previous row if possible

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-search  (&optional what)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t s
@kindex C-e C-t s
@item <fn> C-t s
@kindex <fn> C-t s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-search

@format
Search the table for matching elements.  Interactively prompts for
row or column to search and pattern to look for.    If there is a match, makes
the matching cell current. When called from a program, ‘what’ can
  be either ‘row’ or ‘column’.

(fn &optional WHAT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-search-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-search-column   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t C
@kindex C-e C-t C
@item <fn> C-t C
@kindex <fn> C-t C
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-search-column

@format
Search in current table column.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-search-headers
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-search-headers   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t h
@kindex C-e C-t h
@item <fn> C-t h
@kindex <fn> C-t h
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-search-headers

@format
Search the table row or column headers.  Interactively prompts for
row or column to search and pattern to look for.  If there is a
match, makes the matching row or column current.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-search-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-search-row   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t R
@kindex C-e C-t R
@item <fn> C-t R
@kindex <fn> C-t R
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-search-row

@format
Search in current table row.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-select-automatic-speaking-method
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-select-automatic-speaking-method   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t a
@kindex C-e C-t a
@item <fn> C-t a
@kindex <fn> C-t a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-select-automatic-speaking-method

@format
Interactively select the kind of automatic speech to produce when
browsing table elements
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-sort-on-current-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-sort-on-current-column   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t #
@kindex C-e C-t #
@item <fn> C-t #
@kindex <fn> C-t #
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-sort-on-current-column

@format
Sort table on current column. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-both-headers-and-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-both-headers-and-element   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t b
@kindex C-e C-t b
@item <fn> C-t b
@kindex <fn> C-t b
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-both-headers-and-element

@format
Speak  both row and column header and table element
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-column-filtered
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-column-filtered  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t g
@kindex C-e C-t g
@item <fn> C-t g
@kindex <fn> C-t g
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-column-filtered

@format
Speaks a table column after applying a specified column filter.
Optional prefix arg prompts for a new filter.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-column-header-and-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-column-header-and-element   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t c
@kindex C-e C-t c
@item <fn> C-t c
@kindex <fn> C-t c
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-column-header-and-element

@format
Speak  column header and table element
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-coordinates
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-coordinates   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t .
@kindex C-e C-t .
@item <fn> C-t .
@kindex <fn> C-t .
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-coordinates

@format
Speak current table coordinates.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-current-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-current-element   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t SPC
@kindex C-e C-t SPC
@item <fn> C-t SPC
@kindex <fn> C-t SPC
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-current-element

@format
Speak current table element
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-dimensions
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-dimensions   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t =
@kindex C-e C-t =
@item <fn> C-t =
@kindex <fn> C-t =
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-dimensions

@format
Speak current table dimensions.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-row-filtered
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-row-filtered  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t f
@kindex C-e C-t f
@item <fn> C-t f
@kindex <fn> C-t f
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-row-filtered

@format
Speaks a table row after applying a specified row filter.
Optional prefix arg prompts for a new filter.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-speak-row-header-and-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-speak-row-header-and-element   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t r
@kindex C-e C-t r
@item <fn> C-t r
@kindex <fn> C-t r
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-speak-row-header-and-element

@format
Speak  row header and table element
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-ui-filter-load
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-ui-filter-load  (file)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t M-l
@kindex C-e C-t M-l
@item <fn> C-t M-l
@kindex <fn> C-t M-l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-ui-filter-load

@format
Load saved filter settings.

(fn FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-ui-filter-save
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-ui-filter-save  (file)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t M-s
@kindex C-e C-t M-s
@item <fn> C-t M-s
@kindex <fn> C-t M-s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-ui-filter-save

@format
Save out filter settings.

(fn FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-table-view-csv-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-table-view-csv-buffer  (&optional buffer-name)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t v
@kindex C-e C-t v
@item <fn> C-t v
@kindex <fn> C-t v
@end table

@findex emacspeak-table-view-csv-buffer

@format
Process a csv (comma separated values) data.
The processed  data is  presented using emacspeak table navigation. 

(fn &optional BUFFER-NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tabulate
@section emacspeak-tabulate

This module is a simple table recognizer.
Can recognize the columns in tabulated output, e.g. ps, ls output

@subsection emacspeak-tabulate Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-tabulate-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tabulate-region  (start end &optional mark-fields)
@table @kbd
@item C-e i
@kindex C-e i
@item <fn> i
@kindex <fn> i
@end table

@findex emacspeak-tabulate-region

@format
Voicifies the white-space of a table if one found.  Optional interactive prefix
arg mark-fields specifies if the header row information is used to mark fields
in the white-space.

(fn START END &optional MARK-FIELDS)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tapestry
@section emacspeak-tapestry

emacspeak extensions to speak window widnow layouts 

@subsection emacspeak-tapestry Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-window-layout
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-window-layout  (&optional details)
@findex emacspeak-speak-window-layout

@format
Describe the current layout of visible buffers in current frame.
Use interactive prefix arg to get coordinate positions of the
displayed buffers.

(fn &optional DETAILS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tapestry-describe-tapestry
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tapestry-describe-tapestry  (&optional details)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-t
@kindex C-e M-t
@item <fn> M-t
@kindex <fn> M-t
@end table

@findex emacspeak-tapestry-describe-tapestry

@format
Describe the current layout of visible buffers in current frame.
Use interactive prefix arg to get coordinate positions of the
displayed buffers.

(fn &optional DETAILS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tapestry-select-window-by-name
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tapestry-select-window-by-name  (buffer-name)
@table @kbd
@item C-e W
@kindex C-e W
@item <fn> W
@kindex <fn> W
@end table

@findex emacspeak-tapestry-select-window-by-name

@format
Select window by the name of the buffer it displays.
This is useful when using modes like ECB or the new GDB UI where
  you want to preserve the window layout 
but quickly switch to a window by name.

(fn BUFFER-NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tar
@section emacspeak-tar

Auditory interface to tar mode

@subsection emacspeak-tar Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-tar-speak-file-date
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tar-speak-file-date   
@findex emacspeak-tar-speak-file-date

@format
Speak date of file current entry 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tar-speak-file-permissions
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tar-speak-file-permissions   
@findex emacspeak-tar-speak-file-permissions

@format
Speak permissions of file current entry 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tar-speak-file-size
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tar-speak-file-size   
@findex emacspeak-tar-speak-file-size

@format
Speak size of file current entry 
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tcl
@section emacspeak-tcl

Provide additional advice to tcl-mode 

@node emacspeak-tdtd
@section emacspeak-tdtd

tdtd is an emacs package for authoring and maintaining
XML and SGML DTDs
tdtd is at http://www.mulberrytech.com/tdtd/index.html
this module speech-enables tdtd

@node emacspeak-tempo
@section emacspeak-tempo

tempo.el provides the
infrastructure  for building up templates.
This is used by html-helper-mode to allow for easy writing of HTML
This module extends Emacspeak to provide fluent spoken feedback

@node emacspeak-tetris
@section emacspeak-tetris

Speech-enables tetris.

@subsection emacspeak-tetris Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-goto-bottom-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-goto-bottom-row   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-goto-bottom-row

@format
Move to and speak bottom row
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-goto-top-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-goto-top-row   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-goto-top-row

@format
Move to and speak the top row
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-column
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-column  (&optional x)
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-column

@format
Speak  column --default is to speak current column

(fn &optional X)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-coordinates
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-coordinates   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-coordinates

@format
Speak current position
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape

@format
Speak current shape
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape-and-coordinates
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape-and-coordinates   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-current-shape-and-coordinates

@format
Speak shape orientation and coordinates
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-next-shape
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-next-shape   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-next-shape

@format
Speak next shape
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-row
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-row   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-row

@format
Speak current tetris row
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-row-number
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-row-number   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-row-number

@format
Speak where on the tetris board we are
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-score
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-score   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-score

@format
Speak the score
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-tetris-speak-x-coordinate
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-tetris-speak-x-coordinate   
@findex emacspeak-tetris-speak-x-coordinate

@format
Speak current position
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-texinfo
@section emacspeak-texinfo

This module speech enables net-texinfo mode

@node emacspeak-threes
@section emacspeak-threes

THREES == threes game. This module speech-enable the
game. @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Threes} for history of
the game and details of game play. This module adds additional convenience keybindings to
the default arrow-key bindings implemented in threes.el. In
addition, this module  implements commands that speak the board as well as
getting a column-specific view of the board.

@table @kbd
@item  f
Move right
@item b
Move left
@item n
Move down
@item p
Move up
@item SPC
Speak the board
@item /
Speak board by column.
@item .
Speak current score.
@item s
Save current state
@item u
Pop state from stack
@item ?
Speak next tile
@end table
The updated board is spoken after each turn.
The next upcoming tile is spoken after the  current state of the board.
You can use @kbd{SPC} and @kbd{/} to review the board.

@subsection emacspeak-threes Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-1
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-1   
@findex emacspeak-threes-1

@format
Set next tile.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-2
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-2   
@findex emacspeak-threes-2

@format
Set next tile.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-3
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-3   
@findex emacspeak-threes-3

@format
Set next tile.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-export
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-export  (&optional prompt)
@findex emacspeak-threes-export

@format
Exports game stack to a file.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for a file.
Note that the file is overwritten silently.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-import
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-import  (&optional prompt)
@findex emacspeak-threes-import

@format
Import game.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for a filename.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-pop-state
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-pop-state   
@findex emacspeak-threes-pop-state

@format
Reset state from stack.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-prune-stack
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-prune-stack  (drop)
@findex emacspeak-threes-prune-stack

@format
Prune game stack to specified length.

(fn DROP)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-push-state
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-push-state   
@findex emacspeak-threes-push-state

@format
Push current game state on stack.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-score
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-score   
@findex emacspeak-threes-score

@format
Speak the score.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-speak-board
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-speak-board   
@findex emacspeak-threes-speak-board

@format
Speak the board.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-speak-next
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-speak-next   
@findex emacspeak-threes-speak-next

@format
Speak upcoming tile.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-threes-speak-transposed-board
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-threes-speak-transposed-board   
@findex emacspeak-threes-speak-transposed-board

@format
Speak the board by columns.
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-tide
@section emacspeak-tide

TIDE ==  Typescript IDE for emacs.
This module speech-enables both tide and typescript-mode.

@subsection emacspeak-tide Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tide-file-voice
Personality used for tide-file
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tide-hl-identifier-personality
Personality used for tide-hl-identifier-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tide-imenu-type-personality
Personality used for tide-imenu-type-face
This personality uses  voice-annotate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-annotate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tide-line-number-voice
Personality used for tide-line-number
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tide-match-voice
Personality used for tide-match
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-todo-mode
@section emacspeak-todo-mode

todo-mode (part of Emacs 21) provides todo-lists that can be
integrated with the Emacs calendar.
This module speech-enables todo-mode

@node emacspeak-twittering
@section emacspeak-twittering

 module twittering-mode.el  is found on  the emacs wiki
This module speech-enables twittering-mode which works using
 oauth for authentication.
Note: As of Thu Sep  2 08:11:25 PDT 2010
twit.el is broken.

Advises interactive functions to speak

@subsection emacspeak-twittering Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-twittering-jump-to-following-url
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-twittering-jump-to-following-url   
@findex emacspeak-twittering-jump-to-following-url

@format
Move to and open closest URI  following point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-twittering-speak-this-tweet
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-twittering-speak-this-tweet   
@findex emacspeak-twittering-speak-this-tweet

@format
Speak tweet under point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-twittering Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-twittering-uri-personality
Personality used for twittering-uri-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-twittering-username-personality
Personality used for twittering-username-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-url-template
@section emacspeak-url-template

It is often useful to have ``parametrized hot list entries''
i.e., hotlist entries that are ``templates'' for the
actual URL.
The user provides values for the parametrized portions
of the URL e.g. the date.
See @xref{URL Templates}, for details on the URL templates
that are presently defined.

@subsection emacspeak-url-template Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-url-template-fetch
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-url-template-fetch  (&optional documentation)
@table @kbd
@item C-e u
@kindex C-e u
@item <fn> u
@kindex <fn> u
@end table

@findex emacspeak-url-template-fetch

@format
Fetch a pre-defined resource.
Use Emacs completion to obtain a list of available resources.
Resources typically prompt for the relevant information
before completing the request.
Optional interactive prefix arg displays documentation for specified resource.

(fn &optional DOCUMENTATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-url-template-help
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-url-template-help   
@findex emacspeak-url-template-help

@format
Display documentation for a URL template.
Use Emacs completion to obtain a list of available
resources.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-url-template-load
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-url-template-load  (file)
@findex emacspeak-url-template-load

@format
Load URL template resources from specified location.

(fn FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-url-template-save
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-url-template-save  (file)
@findex emacspeak-url-template-save

@format
Save out url templates.

(fn FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-vdiff
@section emacspeak-vdiff

VDIFF ==  vimdiff
Installable from melpa, vdiff enables synchronized movement
through diff buffers without resorting to an extra control-panel
as is the case with ediff.
 In addition to speech-enabling interactive commands and setting
 up face->voice mappings, this module provides commands that speak
 the current hunk. These are bound in @code{vdiff-mode-prefix-map}.
@itemize  @bullet
@item  @code{emacspeak-vdiff-speak-this-hunk} bound to @kbd{SPC}.
@item @code{emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-hunk} bound to @kbd{C-SPC}.
@item @code{emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-line} bound to @kbd{l}.
@end itemize

@subsection emacspeak-vdiff Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-hunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-hunk   
@findex emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-hunk

@format
Speak corresponding hunk from other buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-line   
@findex emacspeak-vdiff-speak-other-line

@format
Speak corresponding line from other buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vdiff-speak-this-hunk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vdiff-speak-this-hunk   
@findex emacspeak-vdiff-speak-this-hunk

@format
Speak VDiff hunk under point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-vdiff Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-addition-personality
Personality used for vdiff-addition-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-change-personality
Personality used for vdiff-change-face
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-1 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-1-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-closed-fold-personality
Personality used for vdiff-closed-fold-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-open-fold-personality
Personality used for vdiff-open-fold-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-refine-added-voice
Personality used for vdiff-refine-added
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-0 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-0-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-refine-changed-voice
Personality used for vdiff-refine-changed
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-subtraction-fringe-personality
Personality used for vdiff-subtraction-fringe-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-subtraction-personality
Personality used for vdiff-subtraction-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vdiff-target-personality
Personality used for vdiff-target-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-view
@section emacspeak-view

Provide additional advice to view-mode

@subsection emacspeak-view Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-view-line-to-top
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-view-line-to-top   
@findex emacspeak-view-line-to-top

@format
Moves current line to top of window
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-vm
@section emacspeak-vm

This module extends the mail reader vm.
Uses voice locking for message headers and cited messages

@subsection emacspeak-vm Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-browse-message
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-browse-message   
@findex emacspeak-vm-browse-message

@format
Browse an email message --read it paragraph at a time. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-catch-up-all-messages
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-catch-up-all-messages   
@findex emacspeak-vm-catch-up-all-messages

@format
Mark all messages in folder to be deleted. Use with caution.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-locate-subject-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-locate-subject-line   
@findex emacspeak-vm-locate-subject-line

@format
Locates the subject line in a message being read.
Useful when you’re reading a message
that has been forwarded multiple times.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-mode-line
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-mode-line   
@findex emacspeak-vm-mode-line

@format
VM mode line information. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-next-button
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-next-button  (n)
@findex emacspeak-vm-next-button

@format
Move point to N buttons forward.
If N is negative, move backward instead.

(fn N)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-speak-labels
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-speak-labels   
@findex emacspeak-vm-speak-labels

@format
Speak a message’s labels
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-speak-message
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-speak-message   
@findex emacspeak-vm-speak-message

@format
Move point to the message body.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-toggle-html-mime-demotion
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-toggle-html-mime-demotion   
@findex emacspeak-vm-toggle-html-mime-demotion

@format
Toggle state of HTML Mime Demotion.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-vm-yank-header
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-vm-yank-header   
@findex emacspeak-vm-yank-header

@format
Yank specified header into kill ring.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-vm Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-cal2text
Executable that converts calendar invitations    on
  standard input to plain text.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-customize-mime-settings
Non-nil will cause Emacspeak to configure VM mime
settings to match what the author of Emacspeak uses.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-doc2text
Executable that converts MSWord documents on standard input to plain
text using wvText.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-headers-strip-octals
Specify whether non-ascii chars should be stripped when
  speaking email headers.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-pdf2text
Executable that converts PDF on standard input to plain
text using pdftotext.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-ppt2html
Executable that converts MSPPT documents on standard input to HTML
 using xlhtml.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-use-raman-settings
Should VM  use the customizations used by the author of Emacspeak.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-voice-loc
Set this to T if you want messages automatically voice locked.
Note that some badly formed mime messages  cause trouble.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-xls2html
Executable that converts MSXL documents on standard input to HTML
 using xlhtml.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-w3
@section emacspeak-w3

Ensure that speech support for W3 gets installed and
loaded correctly.
The emacs W3 browser comes with builtin support for
Emacspeak and ACSS

@subsection emacspeak-w3 Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-curl-url-under-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-curl-url-under-point   
@findex emacspeak-w3-curl-url-under-point

@format
Display contents of URL under point using Curl and W3.  The
document is displayed in a separate buffer. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-customize-base-uri-pronunciation
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-customize-base-uri-pronunciation   
@findex emacspeak-w3-customize-base-uri-pronunciation

@format
Defines custom buffer local pronunciation for base URI.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-do-onclick
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-do-onclick   
@findex emacspeak-w3-do-onclick

@format
Do  onclick action.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-javascript-follow-link
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-javascript-follow-link   
@findex emacspeak-w3-javascript-follow-link

@format
Follow URL hidden inside a javascript link
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-jump-to-submit
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-jump-to-submit   
@findex emacspeak-w3-jump-to-submit

@format
Jump to next available submit button.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-lynx-url-under-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-lynx-url-under-point   
@findex emacspeak-w3-lynx-url-under-point

@format
Display contents of URL under point using LYNX.  The
document is displayed in a separate buffer. Note that the
hyperlinks in that display are not active-- this facility is
present only to help me iron out the remaining problems with
the table structure extraction code in W3.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-next-block
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-next-block   
@findex emacspeak-w3-next-block

@format
Move by block level displays.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-next-doc-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-next-doc-element  (&optional count)
@findex emacspeak-w3-next-doc-element

@format
Move forward  to the next document element.
Optional interactive prefix argument COUNT
specifies by how many elements to move.

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-next-parsed-item
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-next-parsed-item   
@findex emacspeak-w3-next-parsed-item

@format
Move to and speak next parsed item.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-previous-doc-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-previous-doc-element  (&optional count)
@findex emacspeak-w3-previous-doc-element

@format
Move back  to the previous document element.
Optional interactive prefix argument COUNT
specifies by how many elements to move.

(fn &optional COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-show-anchor-class
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-show-anchor-class   
@findex emacspeak-w3-show-anchor-class

@format
Display any class attributes set on corresponding anchor
element. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-show-http-headers
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-show-http-headers   
@findex emacspeak-w3-show-http-headers

@format
Show HTTP headers using lwp-request
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-speak-next-block
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-speak-next-block   
@findex emacspeak-w3-speak-next-block

@format
Move to next block and speak it.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-speak-next-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-speak-next-element   
@findex emacspeak-w3-speak-next-element

@format
Speak next document element.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-speak-this-element
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-speak-this-element   
@findex emacspeak-w3-speak-this-element

@format
Speak document element under point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3-toggle-table-borders
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3-toggle-table-borders   
@findex emacspeak-w3-toggle-table-borders

@format
Toggle drawing of W3 table borders
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-w3 Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-base-uri-pronunciation
Custom pronunciation for base URIs in w3 buffers.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-create-imenu-index
Create IMenu index by default.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-lwp-request
LWP Request command from perl LWP.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-lynx-program
Name of lynx executable

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-tidy-html
Tidy HTML before rendering.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-tidy-options
Options to pass to tidy program

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-tidy-program
Name of tidy executable

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-w3m
@section emacspeak-w3m

@subsection emacspeak-w3m Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-w3m-preview-this-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-w3m-preview-this-buffer   
@findex emacspeak-w3m-preview-this-buffer

@format
Preview this buffer in w3m.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-w3m Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-anchor-voice
Personality used for w3m-anchor
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-arrived-anchor-voice
Personality used for w3m-arrived-anchor
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-bold-voice
Personality used for w3m-bold
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-current-anchor-voice
Personality used for w3m-current-anchor
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-form-button-pressed-voice
Personality used for w3m-form-button-pressed
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-form-button-voice
Personality used for w3m-form-button
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-form-voice
Personality used for w3m-form
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-header-line-location-content-voice
Personality used for w3m-header-line-location-content
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-header-line-location-title-voice
Personality used for w3m-header-line-location-title
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-history-current-url-voice
Personality used for w3m-history-current-url
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-image-voice
Personality used for w3m-image
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-insert-voice
Personality used for w3m-insert
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-italic-voice
Personality used for w3m-italic
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-speak-titles-on-switch
Speak the document title when switching between w3m buffers.
If non-nil, switching between w3m buffers will speak the title
instead of the modeline.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-strike-through-voice
Personality used for w3m-strike-through
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-tab-selected-voice
Personality used for w3m-tab-selected
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-tab-unselected-voice
Personality used for w3m-tab-unselected
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-underline-voice
Personality used for w3m-underline
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-wdired
@section emacspeak-wdired

Speech-enable wdired to permit in-place renaming of groups of files.

@node emacspeak-we
@section emacspeak-we

we is for webedit
Invoke XSLT to edit/transform Web pages before they get
rendered.
we makes emacspeak's webedit layer independent of a given
Emacs web browser like W3 or W3M
This module will use the abstraction provided by browse-url
to handle Web pages.
Module emacspeak-webutils provides the needed additional
abstractions not already covered by browse-url

@subsection emacspeak-we Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow  (class url &optional prompt)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e y
@kindex C-e x e y
@item <fn> x e y
@kindex <fn> x e y
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow

@format
Follow url and point, and filter the result by specified class.
Class can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.

(fn CLASS URL &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow-link
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow-link  (&optional prompt)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e v
@kindex C-e x e v
@item <fn> x e v
@kindex <fn> x e v
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-class-filter-and-follow-link

@format
Follow url and point, and filter the result by specified class.
Class can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-count-matches
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-count-matches  (url locator)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e C-f
@kindex C-e x e C-f
@item <fn> x e C-f
@kindex <fn> x e C-f
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-count-matches

@format
Count matches for locator  in Web page.

(fn URL LOCATOR)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-count-nested-tables
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-count-nested-tables  (url)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e C-x
@kindex C-e x e C-x
@item <fn> x e C-x
@kindex <fn> x e C-x
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-count-nested-tables

@format
Count nested tables in Web page.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-count-tables
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-count-tables  (url)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e C-t
@kindex C-e x e C-t
@item <fn> x e C-t
@kindex <fn> x e C-t
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-count-tables

@format
Count  tables in Web page.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-by-class
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-by-class  (class url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e c
@kindex C-e x e c
@item <fn> x e c
@kindex <fn> x e c
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-by-class

@format
Extract elements having specified class attribute from HTML. Extracts
specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a separate
buffer. Interactive use provides list of class values as completion.

(fn CLASS URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-by-class-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-by-class-list  (classes url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e C
@kindex C-e x e C
@item <fn> x e C
@kindex <fn> x e C
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-by-class-list

@format
Extract elements having class specified in list ‘classes’ from HTML.
Extracts specified elements from current WWW page and displays it
in a separate buffer.  Interactive use provides list of class
values as completion. 

(fn CLASSES URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-by-id
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-by-id  (id url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e i
@kindex C-e x e i
@item <fn> x e i
@kindex <fn> x e i
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-by-id

@format
Extract elements having specified id attribute from HTML. Extracts
specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a separate
buffer.
Interactive use provides list of id values as completion.

(fn ID URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-by-id-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-by-id-list  (ids url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e I
@kindex C-e x e I
@item <fn> x e I
@kindex <fn> x e I
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-by-id-list

@format
Extract elements having id specified in list ‘ids’ from HTML.
Extracts specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a
separate buffer. Interactive use provides list of id values as completion. 

(fn IDS URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-by-property
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-by-property  (url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e w
@kindex C-e x e w
@item <fn> x e w
@kindex <fn> x e w
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-by-property

@format
Interactively prompt for an HTML property, e.g. id or class,
and provide a completion list of applicable  property values. Filter document by property that is specified.

(fn URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-by-role
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-by-role  (role url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e r
@kindex C-e x e r
@item <fn> x e r
@kindex <fn> x e r
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-by-role

@format
Extract elements having specified role attribute from HTML. Extracts
specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a separate
buffer. Interactive use provides list of role values as completion.

(fn ROLE URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-id-list-text
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-id-list-text  (ids url &optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-we-extract-id-list-text

@format
Extract text nodes from elements having id specified in list ‘ids’ from HTML.
Extracts specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a
separate buffer. Interactive use provides list of id values as completion. 

(fn IDS URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-id-text
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-id-text  (id url &optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-we-extract-id-text

@format
Extract text nodes from elements having specified id attribute from HTML. Extracts
specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a separate
buffer.
Interactive use provides list of id values as completion.

(fn ID URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-matching-urls
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-matching-urls  (pattern url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e u
@kindex C-e x e u
@item <fn> x e u
@kindex <fn> x e u
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-matching-urls

@format
Extracts links whose URL matches pattern.

(fn PATTERN URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-media-streams
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-media-streams  (url &optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-we-extract-media-streams

@format
Extract links to media streams.
operate on current web page when in a browser buffer; otherwise
 prompt for url.  Optional arg ‘speak’ specifies if the result
 should be spoken automatically.

(fn URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-media-streams-under-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-media-streams-under-point   
@findex emacspeak-we-extract-media-streams-under-point

@format
In browser buffers, extract media streams from url under point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table  (index url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e x
@kindex C-e x e x
@item <fn> x e x
@kindex <fn> x e x
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table

@format
Extract nested table specified by ‘table-index’. Default is to
operate on current web page when in a browser buffer; otherwise
prompt for URL. Optional arg ‘speak’ specifies if the result should be
spoken automatically.

(fn INDEX URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table-list  (tables url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e X
@kindex C-e x e X
@item <fn> x e X
@kindex <fn> x e X
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-nested-table-list

@format
Extract specified list of tables from a Web page.

(fn TABLES URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-print-streams
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-print-streams  (url &optional speak)
@findex emacspeak-we-extract-print-streams

@format
Extract links to printable  streams.
operate on current web page when in a browser buffer; otherwise
 prompt for url.  Optional arg ‘speak’ specifies if the result
 should be spoken automatically.

(fn URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-match
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-match  (match url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e m
@kindex C-e x e m
@item <fn> x e m
@kindex <fn> x e m
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-match

@format
Extract table containing  specified match.
 Optional arg url specifies the page to extract content from.

(fn MATCH URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-position
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-position  (position url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e t
@kindex C-e x e t
@item <fn> x e t
@kindex <fn> x e t
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-table-by-position

@format
Extract table at specified position.
Default is to extract from current page.

(fn POSITION URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-match-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-match-list  (match-list url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e M
@kindex C-e x e M
@item <fn> x e M
@kindex <fn> x e M
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-match-list

@format
Extract specified  tables from a WWW page.
Tables are specified by containing  match pattern
 found in the match list.

(fn MATCH-LIST URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-position-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-position-list  (positions url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e T
@kindex C-e x e T
@item <fn> x e T
@kindex <fn> x e T
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-extract-tables-by-position-list

@format
Extract specified list of nested tables from a WWW page.
Tables are specified by their position in the list
 of nested tables found in the page.

(fn POSITIONS URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-follow-and-extract-main
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-follow-and-extract-main  (&optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e P
@kindex C-e x e P
@item <fn> x e P
@kindex <fn> x e P
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-follow-and-extract-main

@format
Follow URL, then extract role=main.

(fn &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-follow-and-filter-by-id
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-follow-and-filter-by-id  (id prompt)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e b
@kindex C-e x e b
@item <fn> x e b
@kindex <fn> x e b
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-follow-and-filter-by-id

@format
Follow url and point, and filter the result by specified id.
Id can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.

(fn ID PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-junk-by-class
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-junk-by-class  (class url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e d
@kindex C-e x e d
@item <fn> x e d
@kindex <fn> x e d
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-junk-by-class

@format
Extract elements not having specified class attribute from HTML. Extracts
specified elements from current WWW page and displays it in a separate
buffer. Interactive use provides list of class values as completion.

(fn CLASS URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-junk-by-class-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-junk-by-class-list  (classes url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e D
@kindex C-e x e D
@item C-e x e C-c
@kindex C-e x e C-c
@item <fn> x e D
@kindex <fn> x e D
@item <fn> x e C-c
@kindex <fn> x e C-c
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-junk-by-class-list

@format
Extract elements not having class specified in list ‘classes’ from HTML.
Extracts specified elements from current WWW page and displays it
in a separate buffer.  Interactive use provides list of class
values as completion. 

(fn CLASSES URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-style-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-style-filter  (style url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e S
@kindex C-e x e S
@item <fn> x e S
@kindex <fn> x e S
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-style-filter

@format
Extract elements matching specified style
from HTML.  Extracts specified elements from current WWW
page and displays it in a separate buffer.  Optional arg url
specifies the page to extract contents  from.

(fn STYLE URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-toggle-xsl-keep-result
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-toggle-xsl-keep-result   
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e k
@kindex C-e x e k
@item <fn> x e k
@kindex <fn> x e k
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-toggle-xsl-keep-result

@format
Toggle xsl keep result flag.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-url-expand-and-execute
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-url-expand-and-execute  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e e
@kindex C-e x e e
@item <fn> x e e
@kindex <fn> x e e
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-url-expand-and-execute

@format
Applies buffer-specific URL expander/executor function.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-url-rewrite-and-follow
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-url-rewrite-and-follow  (&optional prompt)
@findex emacspeak-we-url-rewrite-and-follow

@format
Apply a url rewrite rule as specified in the current buffer
before following link under point.  If no rewrite rule is
defined, first prompt for one.  Rewrite rules are of the
form ‘(from to)’ where from and to are strings.  Typically, the
rewrite rule is automatically set up by Emacspeak tools like
websearch where a rewrite rule is known.  Rewrite rules are
useful in jumping directly to the printer friendly version of an
article for example.  Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for
a rewrite rule even if one is already defined.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-xpath-filter-and-follow
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-xpath-filter-and-follow  (&optional prompt)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e p
@kindex C-e x e p
@item <fn> x e p
@kindex <fn> x e p
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-xpath-filter-and-follow

@format
Follow url and point, and filter the result by specified xpath.
XPath can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-xpath-junk-and-follow
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-xpath-junk-and-follow  (&optional prompt)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e C-p
@kindex C-e x e C-p
@item <fn> x e C-p
@kindex <fn> x e C-p
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-xpath-junk-and-follow

@format
Follow url and point, and filter the result by junking
elements specified by xpath.
XPath can be set locally for a buffer, and overridden with an
interactive prefix arg. If there is a known rewrite url rule, that is
used as well.

(fn &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-xsl-toggle
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-xsl-toggle   
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e o
@kindex C-e x e o
@item <fn> x e o
@kindex <fn> x e o
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-xsl-toggle

@format
Toggle  application of XSL transformations.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-xslt-apply
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-xslt-apply  (xsl)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e a
@kindex C-e x e a
@item <fn> x e a
@kindex <fn> x e a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-xslt-apply

@format
Apply specified transformation to current Web page.

(fn XSL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-xslt-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-xslt-filter  (path url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e f
@kindex C-e x e f
@item <fn> x e f
@kindex <fn> x e f
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-xslt-filter

@format
Extract elements matching specified XPath path locator
from Web page -- default is the current page being viewed.

(fn PATH URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-xslt-junk
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-xslt-junk  (path url &optional speak)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e j
@kindex C-e x e j
@item <fn> x e j
@kindex <fn> x e j
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-xslt-junk

@format
Junk elements matching specified locator.

(fn PATH URL &optional SPEAK)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-we-xslt-select
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-we-xslt-select  (xsl)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x e s
@kindex C-e x e s
@item <fn> x e s
@kindex <fn> x e s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-we-xslt-select

@format
Select XSL transformation applied to Web pages before they are displayed .

(fn XSL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-we Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-cleanup-bogus-quotes
Clean up bogus Unicode chars for magic quotes.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-filters-rename-buffer
Set to T  if you want the buffer name to contain the applied filter.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-media-stream-suffixes
Suffixes that identify   URLs   to media streams.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-paragraphs-xpath-filter
Filter paragraphs.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-recent-class-filter
Caches most recently used class filter.
Can be customized to set up initial default.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-recent-xpath-filter
Caches most recently used xpath filter.
Can be customized to set up initial default.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-xsl-p
T means we apply XSL before displaying HTML.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-we-xsl-transform
Specifies transform to use before displaying a page.
Default is to apply sort-tables.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-websearch
@section emacspeak-websearch

This module provides utility functions for searching the WWW

@subsection emacspeak-websearch Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-accessible-google
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-accessible-google  (query &optional options)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-accessible-google

@format
Use Google Lite (Experimental).
Optional prefix arg prompts for toolbelt options.

(fn QUERY &optional OPTIONS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-amazon-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-amazon-search   
@findex emacspeak-websearch-amazon-search

@format
Amazon search.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-ask-jeeves
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-ask-jeeves  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-ask-jeeves

@format
Ask Jeeves for the answer.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-biblio-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-biblio-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-biblio-search

@format
Search Computer Science Bibliographies.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-citeseer-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-citeseer-search  (term)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-citeseer-search

@format
Perform a CiteSeer search. 

(fn TERM)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-company-news
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-company-news  (ticker &optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-company-news

@format
Perform an company news lookup.
Retrieves company news, research, profile, insider trades,  or upgrades/downgrades.

(fn TICKER &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-cpan-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-cpan-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-cpan-search

@format
Search CPAN  Comprehensive Perl Archive Network   Site. 

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-ctan-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-ctan-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-ctan-search

@format
Search CTAN Comprehensive TeX Archive Network   Site. 

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-dispatch
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-dispatch   
@table @kbd
@item C-e ?
@kindex C-e ?
@item <fn> ?
@kindex <fn> ?
@end table

@findex emacspeak-websearch-dispatch

@format
 Press ‘?’ to list available search engines.
When using supported browsers,  this interface attempts to speak the most relevant information on the result page.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-exchange-rate-converter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-exchange-rate-converter  (conversion-spec)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-exchange-rate-converter

@format
Currency converter.

(fn CONVERSION-SPEC)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-foldoc-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-foldoc-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-foldoc-search

@format
Perform a FolDoc search. 

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google  (query &optional flag)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google

@format
Perform a Google search.  First optional interactive prefix arg
‘flag’ prompts for additional search options. Second interactive
prefix arg is equivalent to hitting the I’m Feeling Lucky button on Google. 

(fn QUERY &optional FLAG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google-category-news
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-category-news   
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google-category-news

@format
Browse Google News by category.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google-feeling-lucky
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-feeling-lucky  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google-feeling-lucky

@format
Do a I’m Feeling Lucky Google search.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google-news
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-news   
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google-news

@format
Invoke Google News url template.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google-regional-news
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-regional-news   
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google-regional-news

@format
Browse Google News by region.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google-search-in-date-range
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-search-in-date-range   
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google-search-in-date-range

@format
Use this from inside the calendar to do Google date-range searches.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google-specialize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-specialize  (specialize query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google-specialize

@format
Perform a specialized Google search. See the Google site for
  what is possible here:
https://www.google.com/options/specialsearches.html 

(fn SPECIALIZE QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-google-with-toolbelt
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-google-with-toolbelt  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-google-with-toolbelt

@format
Launch Google search with toolbelt.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-gutenberg
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-gutenberg  (type query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-gutenberg

@format
Perform an Gutenberg search

(fn TYPE QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-help
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-help   
@findex emacspeak-websearch-help

@format
Displays key mapping used by Emacspeak Websearch.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-merriam-webster-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-merriam-webster-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-merriam-webster-search

@format
Search the Merriam Webster Dictionary.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-news-yahoo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-news-yahoo  (query &optional rss)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-news-yahoo

@format
Perform an Yahoo News search.
Optional prefix arg  avoids scraping  information from HTML.

(fn QUERY &optional RSS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-open-directory-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-open-directory-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-open-directory-search

@format
Perform an Open Directory search

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-software-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-software-search   
@findex emacspeak-websearch-software-search

@format
Search SourceForge, Freshmeat and other sites. 
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-sourceforge-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-sourceforge-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-sourceforge-search

@format
Search SourceForge Site. 

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-weather
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-weather  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-weather

@format
Get weather forecast for specified zip code.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-wikipedia-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-wikipedia-search  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-wikipedia-search

@format
Search Wikipedia using Google.

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-yahoo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-yahoo  (query)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-yahoo

@format
Perform an Yahoo  search

(fn QUERY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-exchange-rate-converter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-exchange-rate-converter  (conversion-spec)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-exchange-rate-converter

@format
Currency converter.

(fn CONVERSION-SPEC)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-historical-chart
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-historical-chart  (ticker &optional as-html)
@findex emacspeak-websearch-yahoo-historical-chart

@format
Look up historical stock data.
Optional second arg as-html processes the results as HTML rather than data.

(fn TICKER &optional AS-HTML)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-websearch Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-websearch-google-number-of-results
Number of results to return from google search.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-websearch-google-options
Additional options to pass to Google e.g. &xx=yy...

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-websearch-google-use-https
Specify whether we use secure connections for Google search.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-webspace
@section emacspeak-webspace

WEBSPACE == Smart Web Gadgets For The Emacspeak Desktop

@subsection emacspeak-webspace Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-feed-reader
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-feed-reader  (&optional refresh)
@table @kbd
@item C-' R
@kindex C-' R
@item C-x @@ s R
@kindex C-x @@ s R
@end table

@findex emacspeak-webspace-feed-reader

@format
Display Feed Reader Feed list in a WebSpace buffer.
Optional interactive prefix arg forces a refresh.

(fn &optional REFRESH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-filter
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-filter   
@findex emacspeak-webspace-filter

@format
Open headline at point by following its link property and filter for content.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-headlines
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-headlines   
@table @kbd
@item C-; SPC h
@kindex C-; SPC h
@item C-x @@ h SPC h
@kindex C-x @@ h SPC h
@end table

@findex emacspeak-webspace-headlines

@format
Startup Headlines ticker using RSS/Atom  feeds.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-headlines-browse
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-headlines-browse   
@table @kbd
@item C-; SPC SPC
@kindex C-; SPC SPC
@item C-x @@ h SPC SPC
@kindex C-x @@ h SPC SPC
@end table

@findex emacspeak-webspace-headlines-browse

@format
Display buffer of browsable headlines.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-headlines-update
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-headlines-update   
@findex emacspeak-webspace-headlines-update

@format
Setup news updates.
Updated headlines found in emacspeak-webspace-headlines.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-knowledge-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-knowledge-search  (query &optional limit)
@table @kbd
@item C-; k
@kindex C-; k
@item C-x @@ h k
@kindex C-x @@ h k
@end table

@findex emacspeak-webspace-knowledge-search

@format
Perform a Google Knowledge Graph search.
Optional interactive prefix arg ‘limit’ prompts for number of results, default is 1.

(fn QUERY &optional LIMIT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-mode   
@findex emacspeak-webspace-mode

@format
Major mode for Webspace interaction.

key             binding
---             -------

TAB		forward-button
ESC		Prefix Command
'		emacspeak-speak-rest-of-buffer
.		emacspeak-webspace-filter
/		search-forward
<		beginning-of-buffer
>		end-of-buffer
?		search-backward
b		backward-button
f		forward-button
n		forward-button
p		backward-button
q		bury-buffer
y		emacspeak-webspace-yank-link
<backtab>	backward-button

C-M-i		backward-button

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-webspace-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-open   
@findex emacspeak-webspace-open

@format
Open headline at point by following its link property.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-transcode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-transcode   
@findex emacspeak-webspace-transcode

@format
Transcode headline at point by following its link property.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webspace-yank-link
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webspace-yank-link   
@findex emacspeak-webspace-yank-link

@format
Yank link under point into kill ring.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-webspace Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-webspace-kg-key
API Key for Google Knowledge Graph.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-webutils
@section emacspeak-webutils

This module provides common Web utilities for emacspeak.
This is to avoid duplication of code between emacspeak-w3.el
and emacspeak-w3m.el

@subsection emacspeak-webutils Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-curl-play-media-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-curl-play-media-at-point   
@findex emacspeak-webutils-curl-play-media-at-point

@format
Use Curl to pull a URL, then pass
the first line to MPlayer as a playlist.
Useful in handling double-redirect from TuneIn.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-google-extract-from-cache
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-google-extract-from-cache  (&optional prefix)
@findex emacspeak-webutils-google-extract-from-cache

@format
Extract current  page from the Google cache.
With a prefix argument, extracts url under point.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-google-on-this-site
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-google-on-this-site   
@findex emacspeak-webutils-google-on-this-site

@format
Perform a google search restricted to the current WWW site.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-google-similar-to-this-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-google-similar-to-this-page  (url)
@findex emacspeak-webutils-google-similar-to-this-page

@format
Ask Google to find documents similar to this one.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-google-who-links-to-this-page
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-google-who-links-to-this-page   
@findex emacspeak-webutils-google-who-links-to-this-page

@format
Perform a google search to locate documents that link to the
current page.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-jump-to-title-in-content
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-jump-to-title-in-content   
@findex emacspeak-webutils-jump-to-title-in-content

@format
Jumps to the title in web document.
The first time it is called, it jumps to the first
instance  of the title.  Repeated calls jump to further
instances.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-open-in-other-browser
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-open-in-other-browser   
@findex emacspeak-webutils-open-in-other-browser

@format
Opens link in alternate browser.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-play-media-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-play-media-at-point  (&optional playlist-p)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-;
@kindex C-e M-;
@item <fn> M-;
@kindex <fn> M-;
@end table

@findex emacspeak-webutils-play-media-at-point

@format
Play media url under point.
Optional interactive prefix arg ‘playlist-p’ says to treat the link as a playlist.
 A second interactive prefix arg adds mplayer option -allow-dangerous-playlist-parsing

(fn &optional PLAYLIST-P)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-transcode-current-url-via-google
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-transcode-current-url-via-google  (&optional untranscode)
@findex emacspeak-webutils-transcode-current-url-via-google

@format
Transcode current URL via Google.
  Reverse effect with prefix arg.

(fn &optional UNTRANSCODE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-webutils-transcode-via-google
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-webutils-transcode-via-google  (&optional untranscode)
@findex emacspeak-webutils-transcode-via-google

@format
Transcode URL under point via Google.
 Reverse effect with prefix arg for links on a transcoded page.

(fn &optional UNTRANSCODE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-webutils Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-webutils-charent-alist
Entities to unescape when treating badly escaped XML.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-widget
@section emacspeak-widget

This module implements the necessary extensions to provide talking
widgets.

@subsection emacspeak-widget Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-widget-browse-widget-interactively
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-widget-browse-widget-interactively   
@findex emacspeak-widget-browse-widget-interactively

@format
Allows you to browse a widget
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-widget-help
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-widget-help   
@findex emacspeak-widget-help

@format
Speak help for widget under point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-widget-summarize-parent
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-widget-summarize-parent   
@findex emacspeak-widget-summarize-parent

@format
Summarize parent of widget at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-widget-summarize-widget-under-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-widget-summarize-widget-under-point  (&optional level)
@findex emacspeak-widget-summarize-widget-under-point

@format
Summarize a widget if any under point.
Optional interactive prefix specifies how many levels to go up from current
widget before summarizing.

(fn &optional LEVEL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-widget-update-from-minibuffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-widget-update-from-minibuffer  (pos)
@findex emacspeak-widget-update-from-minibuffer

@format
Sets widget at ‘pos’ by invoking its prompter.

(fn POS)
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-windmove
@section emacspeak-windmove

Package  windmove (bundled with Emacs 21)
provides commands for navigating to windows based on
relative position.

@node emacspeak-winring
@section emacspeak-winring

window configurations in emacs are very useful 
you can display the same file in different windows,
and have different  portions of the file displayed.
winring allows you to manage window configurations,
and this module speech-enables it.

@node emacspeak-wizards
@section emacspeak-wizards

Contains various wizards for the Emacspeak desktop.

@subsection emacspeak-wizards Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-annotate-add-annotation
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-annotate-add-annotation  (&optional reset)
@findex emacspeak-annotate-add-annotation

@format
Add annotation to the annotation working buffer.
Prompt for annotation buffer if not already set.
Interactive prefix arg ‘reset’ prompts for the annotation
buffer even if one is already set.
Annotation is entered in a temporary buffer and the
annotation is inserted into the working buffer when complete.

(fn &optional RESET)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-clipboard-copy
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-clipboard-copy  (start end &optional prompt)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-c
@kindex C-e C-c
@item <fn> C-c
@kindex <fn> C-c
@end table

@findex emacspeak-clipboard-copy

@format
Copy contents of the region to the emacspeak clipboard. Previous
contents of the clipboard will be overwritten. The Emacspeak clipboard
is a convenient way of sharing information between independent
Emacspeak sessions running on the same or different machines. Do not
use this for sharing information within an Emacs session --Emacs’
register commands are far more efficient and light-weight. Optional
interactive prefix arg results in Emacspeak prompting for the
clipboard file to use. Argument START and END specifies
region. Optional argument PROMPT specifies whether we prompt for the
name of a clipboard file.

(fn START END &optional PROMPT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-clipboard-paste
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-clipboard-paste  (&optional paste-table)
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-y
@kindex C-e C-y
@item <fn> C-y
@kindex <fn> C-y
@end table

@findex emacspeak-clipboard-paste

@format
Yank contents of the Emacspeak clipboard at point.
The Emacspeak clipboard is a convenient way of sharing information between
independent Emacspeak sessions running on the same or different
machines.  Do not use this for sharing information within an Emacs
session --Emacs’ register commands are far more efficient and
light-weight.  Optional interactive prefix arg pastes from
the emacspeak table clipboard instead.

(fn &optional PASTE-TABLE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-copy-current-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-copy-current-file   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-c
@kindex C-e M-c
@item <fn> M-c
@kindex <fn> M-c
@end table

@findex emacspeak-copy-current-file

@format
Copy file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when copying.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Asks for confirmation if the copy will result in an
  existing file being overwritten.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-curl
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-curl  (url)
@findex emacspeak-curl

@format
Grab URL using Curl, and preview it with a browser .

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-customize
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-customize   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C
@kindex C-e C
@item <fn> C
@kindex <fn> C
@end table

@findex emacspeak-customize

@format
Customize Emacspeak.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <insert>
@kindex C-e <insert>
@item <fn> <insert>
@kindex <fn> <insert>
@item C-e x s
@kindex C-e x s
@item <fn> x s
@kindex <fn> x s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart

@format
For use in an emergency.
Will start TTS engine specified by
emacspeak-emergency-tts-server.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-frame-label-or-switch-to-labelled-frame
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-frame-label-or-switch-to-labelled-frame  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-f
@kindex C-e M-f
@item <fn> M-f
@kindex <fn> M-f
@end table

@findex emacspeak-frame-label-or-switch-to-labelled-frame

@format
Switch to labelled frame.
With optional PREFIX argument, label current frame.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-kill-buffer-quietly
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-kill-buffer-quietly   
@table @kbd
@item C-e C-t Q
@kindex C-e C-t Q
@item <fn> C-t Q
@kindex <fn> C-t Q
@end table

@findex emacspeak-kill-buffer-quietly

@format
Kill current buffer without asking for confirmation.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-learn-emacs-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-learn-emacs-mode   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <f1>
@kindex C-e <f1>
@item C-h C-l
@kindex C-h C-l
@item <fn> <f1>
@kindex <fn> <f1>
@item <f1> C-l
@kindex <f1> C-l
@item <help> C-l
@kindex <help> C-l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-learn-emacs-mode

@format
Helps you learn the keys.  You can press keys and hear what they do.
To leave, press C-g.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-link-current-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-link-current-file   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-l
@kindex C-e M-l
@item <fn> M-l
@kindex <fn> M-l
@end table

@findex emacspeak-link-current-file

@format
Link (hard link) file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when linking.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Signals an error if target already exists.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-links
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-links  (url)
@findex emacspeak-links

@format
Launch links on  specified URL in a new terminal.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-lynx
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-lynx  (url)
@findex emacspeak-lynx

@format
Launch lynx on  specified URL in a new terminal.

(fn URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-next-frame-or-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-next-frame-or-buffer  (&optional frame)
@table @kbd
@item <C-right>
@kindex <C-right>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-next-frame-or-buffer

@format
Move to next buffer.
With optional interactive prefix arg ‘frame’, move to next frame instead.

(fn &optional FRAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-previous-frame-or-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-previous-frame-or-buffer  (&optional frame)
@table @kbd
@item <C-left>
@kindex <C-left>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-previous-frame-or-buffer

@format
Move to previous buffer.
With optional interactive prefix arg ‘frame’, move to previous frame instead.

(fn &optional FRAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-select-this-buffer-next-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-select-this-buffer-next-display   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <C-<right>
@kindex C-e <C-<right>
@item <fn> <C-<right>
@kindex <fn> <C-<right>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-select-this-buffer-next-display

@format
Select this buffer as displayed in a ‘next’ frame.
See documentation for command
‘emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display’ for the
meaning of ‘next’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display  (&optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display

@format
Switch  to this buffer as displayed in a different frame.  Emacs
allows you to display the same buffer in multiple windows or
frames.  These different windows can display different
portions of the buffer.  This is equivalent to leaving a
book open at multiple places at once.  This command allows you to
move to the places where you have left the book open.  The
number used to invoke this command specifies which of the
displays you wish to select.  Typically you will have two or
at most three such displays open.  The current display is 0,
the next is 1, and so on.  Optional argument ARG specifies
the display to select.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-select-this-buffer-previous-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-select-this-buffer-previous-display   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <C-<left>
@kindex C-e <C-<left>
@item <fn> <C-<left>
@kindex <fn> <C-<left>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-select-this-buffer-previous-display

@format
Select this buffer as displayed in a ‘previous’ window.
See documentation for command
‘emacspeak-select-this-buffer-other-window-display’ for the
meaning of ‘previous’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-show-personality-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-show-personality-at-point   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-v
@kindex C-e M-v
@item <fn> M-v
@kindex <fn> M-v
@end table

@findex emacspeak-show-personality-at-point

@format
Show value of property personality (and possibly face)
at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-show-property-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-show-property-at-point  (&optional property)
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-P
@kindex C-e M-P
@item <fn> M-P
@kindex <fn> M-P
@end table

@findex emacspeak-show-property-at-point

@format
Show value of PROPERTY at point.
If optional arg property is not supplied, read it interactively.
Provides completion based on properties at point.
If no property is set, show a message and exit.

(fn &optional PROPERTY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-backward
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-backward   
@table @kbd
@item <S-up>
@kindex <S-up>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-backward

@format
Move backward  across blank lines.
The line under point is   then spoken.
Signals beginning  of buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-forward
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-forward   
@table @kbd
@item <S-down>
@kindex <S-down>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-skip-blank-lines-forward

@format
Move forward across blank lines.
The line under point is then spoken.
Signals end of buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-popup-messages
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-popup-messages   
@table @kbd
@item C-h M
@kindex C-h M
@item <f1> M
@kindex <f1> M
@item <help> M
@kindex <help> M
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-popup-messages

@format
Pop up messages buffer.
If it is already selected then hide it and try to restore
previous window configuration.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-run-shell-command
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-run-shell-command  (command &optional read-as-csv)
@table @kbd
@item C-e !
@kindex C-e !
@item <fn> !
@kindex <fn> !
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-run-shell-command

@format
Invoke shell COMMAND and display its output as a table. The
results are placed in a buffer in Emacspeak’s table browsing
mode. Optional interactive prefix arg read-as-csv interprets the
result as csv. . Use this for running shell commands that produce
tabulated output. This command should be used for shell commands
that produce tabulated output that works with Emacspeak’s table
recognizer. Verify this first by running the command in a shell
and executing command ‘emacspeak-table-display-table-in-region’
normally bound to C-e M-i.

(fn COMMAND &optional READ-AS-CSV)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory  (&optional edit)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x t
@kindex C-e x t
@item <fn> x t
@kindex <fn> x t
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory

@format
Lookup and display a phone number.
With prefix arg, opens the phone book for editing.

(fn &optional EDIT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-next-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-next-display   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <right>
@kindex C-e <right>
@item <fn> <right>
@kindex <fn> <right>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-next-display

@format
Speak this buffer as displayed in a ‘previous’ window.
See documentation for command
‘emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display’ for the
meaning of ‘next’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display  (&optional arg)
@table @kbd
@item C-e /
@kindex C-e /
@item <fn> /
@kindex <fn> /
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display

@format
Speak this buffer as displayed in a different frame.  Emacs
allows you to display the same buffer in multiple windows or
frames.  These different windows can display different
portions of the buffer.  This is equivalent to leaving a
book open at places at once.  This command allows you to
listen to the places where you have left the book open.  The
number used to invoke this command specifies which of the
displays you wish to speak.  Typically you will have two or
at most three such displays open.  The current display is 0,
the next is 1, and so on.  Optional argument ARG specifies
the display to speak.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-previous-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-previous-display   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <left>
@kindex C-e <left>
@item <fn> <left>
@kindex <fn> <left>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-previous-display

@format
Speak this buffer as displayed in a ‘previous’ window.
See documentation for command
‘emacspeak-speak-this-buffer-other-window-display’ for the
meaning of ‘previous’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-ssh-tts-restart
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-ssh-tts-restart   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <delete>
@kindex C-e <delete>
@item C-e <(deletechar>
@kindex C-e <(deletechar>
@item <fn> <delete>
@kindex <fn> <delete>
@item <fn> <(deletechar>
@kindex <fn> <(deletechar>
@end table

@findex emacspeak-ssh-tts-restart

@format
Restart specified ssh tts server.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-symlink-current-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-symlink-current-file   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-s
@kindex C-e M-s
@item <fn> M-s
@kindex <fn> M-s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-symlink-current-file

@format
Link (symbolic link) file visited in current buffer to new location.
Prompts for the new location and preserves modification time
  when linking.  If location is a directory, the file is copied
  to that directory under its current name ; if location names
  a file in an existing directory, the specified name is
  used.  Signals an error if target already exists.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-view-emacspeak-news
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-view-emacspeak-news   
@table @kbd
@item C-e N
@kindex C-e N
@item <fn> N
@kindex <fn> N
@end table

@findex emacspeak-view-emacspeak-news

@format
Display emacspeak News for a given version.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-view-emacspeak-tips
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-view-emacspeak-tips   
@table @kbd
@item C-e T
@kindex C-e T
@item <fn> T
@kindex <fn> T
@end table

@findex emacspeak-view-emacspeak-tips

@format
Browse  Emacspeak productivity tips.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-add-autoload-cookies
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-add-autoload-cookies  (&optional f)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-add-autoload-cookies

@format
Add autoload cookies to file f.
Default is to add autoload cookies to current file.

(fn &optional F)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-braille
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-braille  (s)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-braille

@format
Insert Braille string at point.

(fn S)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-byte-compile-current-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-byte-compile-current-buffer   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-byte-compile-current-buffer

@format
byte compile current buffer
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-cleanup-shell-path
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-cleanup-shell-path   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-cleanup-shell-path

@format
Cleans up duplicates in shell path env variable.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-color-at-point
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-color-at-point   
@table @kbd
@item C-h ,
@kindex C-h ,
@item <f1> ,
@kindex <f1> ,
@item <help> ,
@kindex <help> ,
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-color-at-point

@format
Echo foreground/background color at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-comma-at-end-of-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-comma-at-end-of-word   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-comma-at-end-of-word

@format
Move to the end of current word and add a comma.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-count-slides-in-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-count-slides-in-region  (start end)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-count-slides-in-region

@format
Count slides starting from point.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-customize-saved
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-customize-saved  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-customize-saved

@format
Customize  saved options  matching ‘pattern’.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-cycle-browser
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-cycle-browser   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-cycle-browser

@format
Cycles through available browsers.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-next-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-next-buffer   
@table @kbd
@item C-, n
@kindex C-, n
@item C-x @@ a n
@kindex C-x @@ a n
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-next-buffer

@format
Cycles to next buffer having same mode.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-previous-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-previous-buffer   
@table @kbd
@item C-, p
@kindex C-, p
@item C-x @@ a p
@kindex C-x @@ a p
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-cycle-to-previous-buffer

@format
Cycles to previous buffer having same mode.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-display-pod-as-manpage
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-display-pod-as-manpage  (filename)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-display-pod-as-manpage

@format
Create a virtual manpage in Emacs from the Perl Online Documentation.

(fn FILENAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-dvi-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-dvi-display   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-dvi-display

@format
Called to set up preview of an DVI file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .DVI file.
Previews those contents as text and nukes the buffer
visiting the DVI file.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-dvi-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-dvi-mode   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-dvi-mode

@format
Major mode for browsing DVI files.

DVI files  are converted to text and previewed using text mode.

This mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-wizards-dvi-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-end-of-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-end-of-word  (arg)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-end-of-word

@format
move to end of word

(fn ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-matching-commands
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-matching-commands  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-matching-commands

@format
Return list of commands whose names match pattern.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-matching-faces
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-matching-faces  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-matching-faces

@format
Enumerate  faces matching pattern.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-obsolete-faces
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-obsolete-faces   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-obsolete-faces

@format
utility function to enumerate old, obsolete maps that we have still
mapped to voices.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-uncovered-commands
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-uncovered-commands  (pattern)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-uncovered-commands

@format
Enumerate unadvised commands matching pattern.

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-unmapped-faces
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-unmapped-faces  (&optional pattern)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-enumerate-unmapped-faces

@format
Enumerate unmapped faces matching pattern.

(fn &optional PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-espeak-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-espeak-region  (start end)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-espeak-region

@format
Speak region using ESpeak polyglot wizard.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-espeak-string
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-espeak-string  (string)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-espeak-string

@format
Speak string in lang via ESpeak.
Lang is obtained from property ‘lang’ on string, or  via an interactive prompt.

(fn STRING)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-eww-buffer-list
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-eww-buffer-list   
@table @kbd
@item C-; w m
@kindex C-; w m
@item C-x @@ h w m
@kindex C-x @@ h w m
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-eww-buffer-list

@format
Display list of open EWW buffers.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-find-emacspeak-source
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-emacspeak-source   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-find-emacspeak-source

@format
Like find-file, but binds default-directory to emacspeak-directory.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-find-file-as-root
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-file-as-root   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-find-file-as-root

@format
Like ‘ido-find-file, but automatically edit the file with
root-privileges (using tramp/sudo), if the file is not writable by
user.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-find-grep
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-grep  (glob pattern)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-find-grep

@format
Run compile using find and grep.
Interactive  arguments specify filename pattern and search pattern.

(fn GLOB PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-line-in-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-line-in-region  (start end)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x =
@kindex C-e x =
@item <fn> x =
@kindex <fn> x =
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-line-in-region

@format
Find longest line in region.
Moves to the longest line when called interactively.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-paragraph-in-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-paragraph-in-region  (start end)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-find-longest-paragraph-in-region

@format
Find longest paragraph in region.
Moves to the longest paragraph when called interactively.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-find-shortest-line-in-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-find-shortest-line-in-region  (start end)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-find-shortest-line-in-region

@format
Find shortest line in region.
Moves to the shortest line when called interactively.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-finder-find
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-finder-find  (directory)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-finder-find

@format
Run find-dired on specified switches after prompting for the
directory to where find is to be launched.

(fn DIRECTORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode

@format
Emacspeak Finder

This mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-wizards-finder-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-fix-read-only-text
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-fix-read-only-text  (start end)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-fix-read-only-text

@format
Nuke read-only property on text range.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-fix-typo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-fix-typo  (ext word correction)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-fix-typo

@format
Search and replace  recursively in all files with extension ‘ext’
for ‘word’ and replace it with correction.
Use with caution.

(fn EXT WORD CORRECTION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-generate-finder
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-generate-finder   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-generate-finder

@format
Generate a widget-enabled finder wizard.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-generate-voice-sampler
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-generate-voice-sampler  (step)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-generate-voice-sampler

@format
Generate a buffer that shows a sample line in all the ACSS settings
for the current voice family.

(fn STEP)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-file  (file depth count)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-file

@format
Extract table specified by depth and count from HTML
content at file.
Extracted content is sent to STDOUT.

(fn FILE DEPTH COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-url
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-url  (url depth count)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-get-table-content-from-url

@format
Extract table specified by depth and count from HTML
content at URL.
Extracted content is placed as a csv file in task.csv.

(fn URL DEPTH COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-google-transcode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-google-transcode   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-google-transcode

@format
View Web through Google Transcoder.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-how-many-matches
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-how-many-matches  (start end &optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x h
@kindex C-e x h
@item <fn> x h
@kindex <fn> x h
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-how-many-matches

@format
If you define a file local variable
called ‘emacspeak-occur-pattern’ that holds a regular expression
that matches  lines of interest, you can use this command to conveniently
run ‘how-many’ to count  matching header lines.
With interactive prefix arg, prompts for and remembers the file local pattern.

(fn START END &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-iheart
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-iheart  (q)
@table @kbd
@item C-, i
@kindex C-, i
@item C-x @@ a i
@kindex C-x @@ a i
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-iheart

@format
Perform IHeart Radio search and display clickable results.

(fn Q)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-iheart-radio-play
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-iheart-radio-play  (id)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-iheart-radio-play

@format
Play specified   station from IHeart Radio.

(fn ID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-lacheck-buffer-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-lacheck-buffer-file   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-lacheck-buffer-file

@format
Run Lacheck on current buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-load-current-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-load-current-file   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-load-current-file

@format
load file into emacs
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-mlb-standings
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-mlb-standings  (&optional raw)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-mlb-standings

@format
Display MLB standings as of today.
Optional interactive prefix arg shows  unprocessed results.

(fn &optional RAW)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-move-and-speak
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-move-and-speak  (command count)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-move-and-speak

@format
Speaks a chunk of text bounded by point and a target position.
Target position is specified using a navigation command and a
count that specifies how many times to execute that command
first.  Point is left at the target position.  Interactively,
command is specified by pressing the key that invokes the
command.

(fn COMMAND COUNT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-nba-standings
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-nba-standings  (&optional raw)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-nba-standings

@format
Display NBA standings as of today.
Optional interactive prefix arg shows  unprocessed results.

(fn &optional RAW)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-next-bullet
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-next-bullet   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-next-bullet

@format
Navigate to and speak next ‘bullet’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-next-interactive-defun
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-next-interactive-defun   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-next-interactive-defun

@format
Move point to the next interactive defun
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-next-shell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-next-shell   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-next-shell

@format
Switch to next shell.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-occur-header-lines
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-occur-header-lines  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x o
@kindex C-e x o
@item <fn> x o
@kindex <fn> x o
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-occur-header-lines

@format
If you define a file local variable called
‘emacspeak-occur-pattern’ that holds a regular expression that
matches header lines, you can use this command to conveniently
run ‘occur’ to find matching header lines. With prefix arg,
prompts for and sets value of the file local pattern.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-pdf-open
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-pdf-open  (filename &optional ask-pwd)
@table @kbd
@item C-; p
@kindex C-; p
@item C-x @@ h p
@kindex C-x @@ h p
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-pdf-open

@format
Open pdf file as text.
Optional interactive prefix arg ask-pwd prompts for password.

(fn FILENAME &optional ASK-PWD)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-popup-input-buffer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-popup-input-buffer  (mode)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-popup-input-buffer

@format
Provide an input buffer in a specified mode.

(fn MODE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-ppt-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-ppt-display   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-ppt-display

@format
Called to set up preview of an PPT file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .ppt file.
Previews those contents as HTML and nukes the buffer
visiting the ppt file.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode

@format
Major mode for browsing PPT slides.

PPT files  are converted to HTML and previewed using a browser.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘text-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-wizards-ppt-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-previous-bullet
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-previous-bullet   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-previous-bullet

@format
Navigate to and speak previous ‘bullet’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-previous-shell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-previous-shell   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-previous-shell

@format
Switch to previous shell.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-rivo
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-rivo  (when channel stop-time output directory)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-rivo

@format
Rivo wizard.
Prompts for relevant information and schedules a rivo job using
  UNIX At scheduling facility.
RIVO is implemented by rivo.pl ---
 a Perl script  that can be used to launch streaming media and record
   streaming media for  a specified duration.

(fn WHEN CHANNEL STOP-TIME OUTPUT DIRECTORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-rpm-query-in-dired
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-rpm-query-in-dired   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-rpm-query-in-dired

@format
Run rpm -qi on current dired entry.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-scratch
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-scratch   
@table @kbd
@item C-' SPC
@kindex C-' SPC
@item C-x @@ s SPC
@kindex C-x @@ s SPC
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-scratch

@format
Switch to *scratch* buffer, creating it if necessary.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-shell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-shell  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-; s
@kindex C-; s
@item C-x @@ h s
@kindex C-x @@ h s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-shell

@format
Run Emacs built-in ‘shell’ command when not in a shell buffer, or
when called with a prefix argument. When called from a shell buffer,
switches to ‘next’ shell buffer. When called from outside a shell
buffer, find the most ‘appropriate shell’ and switch to it. Once
switched, set default directory in that target shell to the directory
of the source buffer.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-shell-by-key
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-shell-by-key  (&optional prefix)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x 9
@kindex C-e x 9
@item C-e x 8
@kindex C-e x 8
@item C-e x 7
@kindex C-e x 7
@item C-e x 6
@kindex C-e x 6
@item C-e x 5
@kindex C-e x 5
@item C-e x 4
@kindex C-e x 4
@item C-e x 3
@kindex C-e x 3
@item C-e x 2
@kindex C-e x 2
@item C-e x 1
@kindex C-e x 1
@item C-e x 0
@kindex C-e x 0
@item <fn> x 9
@kindex <fn> x 9
@item <fn> x 8
@kindex <fn> x 8
@item <fn> x 7
@kindex <fn> x 7
@item <fn> x 6
@kindex <fn> x 6
@item <fn> x 5
@kindex <fn> x 5
@item <fn> x 4
@kindex <fn> x 4
@item <fn> x 3
@kindex <fn> x 3
@item <fn> x 2
@kindex <fn> x 2
@item <fn> x 1
@kindex <fn> x 1
@item <fn> x 0
@kindex <fn> x 0
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-shell-by-key

@format
Switch to shell buffer by key. This provides a predictable means for
  switching to a specific shell buffer. When invoked from a
  non-shell-mode buffer that is visiting a file, invokes ‘cd ’ in the
  shell to change to the value of ‘default-directory’ --- if called with  a
  prefix-arg. When already in a shell buffer,
  interactive prefix arg ‘prefix’ causes this shell to be re-keyed if
  appropriate --- see M-x emacspeak-wizards-shell-re-key for an
  explanation of how re-keying works.

(fn &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-shell-command-on-current-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-shell-command-on-current-file  (command)
@table @kbd
@item C-e &
@kindex C-e &
@item <fn> &
@kindex <fn> &
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-shell-command-on-current-file

@format
Prompts for and runs shell command on current file.

(fn COMMAND)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-shell-directory-reset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-shell-directory-reset   
@table @kbd
@item C-e x .
@kindex C-e x .
@item <fn> x .
@kindex <fn> x .
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-shell-directory-reset

@format
Set current directory to this shell’s initial directory if one was defined.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-shell-toggle
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-shell-toggle   
@table @kbd
@item C-e <f11>
@kindex C-e <f11>
@item C-; j
@kindex C-; j
@item <fn> <f11>
@kindex <fn> <f11>
@item C-x @@ h j
@kindex C-x @@ h j
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-shell-toggle

@format
Switch to the shell buffer and cd to
 the directory of the current buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-show-commentary
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-commentary  (&optional file)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-show-commentary

@format
Display commentary. Default is to display commentary from current buffer.

(fn &optional FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-show-environment-variable
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-environment-variable  (v)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-show-environment-variable

@format
Display value of specified environment variable.

(fn V)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-show-eval-result
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-eval-result  (form)
@table @kbd
@item M-ESC :
@kindex M-ESC :
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-show-eval-result

@format
Convenience command to pretty-print and view Lisp evaluation results.

(fn FORM)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-show-face
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-face  (face)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-show-face

@format
Show salient properties of specified face.

(fn FACE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-show-memory-used
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-show-memory-used   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-show-memory-used

@format
Convenience command to view state of memory used in this session so far.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-speak-iso-datetime
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-speak-iso-datetime  (iso)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-speak-iso-datetime

@format
Make ISO date-time speech friendly.

(fn ISO)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-spot-words
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-spot-words  (ext word)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-spot-words

@format
Searches recursively in all files with extension ‘ext’
for ‘word’ and displays hits in a compilation buffer.

(fn EXT WORD)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-squeeze-blanks
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-squeeze-blanks  (start end)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x |
@kindex C-e x |
@item <fn> x |
@kindex <fn> x |
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-squeeze-blanks

@format
Squeeze multiple blank lines in current buffer.

(fn START END)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-sunrise-sunset
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-sunrise-sunset  (address &optional arg)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-sunrise-sunset

@format
Display sunrise/sunset for specified address.

(fn ADDRESS &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-term
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-term  (create)
@table @kbd
@item C-; a
@kindex C-; a
@item C-x @@ h a
@kindex C-x @@ h a
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-term

@format
Switch to an ansi-term buffer or create one.
With prefix arg, always creates a new terminal.
Otherwise cycles through existing terminals, creating the first
term if needed.

(fn CREATE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-terminal
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-terminal  (program)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-terminal

@format
Launch terminal and rename buffer appropriately.

(fn PROGRAM)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-tex-tie-current-word
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-tex-tie-current-word  (n)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-tex-tie-current-word

@format
Tie the next n  words.

(fn N)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-thanks-mail-signature
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-thanks-mail-signature   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-thanks-mail-signature

@format
insert thanks , --Raman at the end of mail message
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-toggle-mm-dd-yyyy-date-pronouncer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-toggle-mm-dd-yyyy-date-pronouncer   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-toggle-mm-dd-yyyy-date-pronouncer

@format
Toggle pronunciation of mm-dd-yyyy dates.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-toggle-yyyymmdd-date-pronouncer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-toggle-yyyymmdd-date-pronouncer   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-toggle-yyyymmdd-date-pronouncer

@format
Toggle pronunciation of yyyymmdd  dates.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location  (name)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location

@format
Open specified tramp location.
Location is specified by name.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-browse
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-browse  (&optional category)
@table @kbd
@item C-, t
@kindex C-, t
@item C-x @@ a t
@kindex C-x @@ a t
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-browse

@format
Browse Tune-In Radio.
Optional interactive prefix arg ‘category’ prompts for a category.

(fn &optional CATEGORY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-search
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-search   
@table @kbd
@item C-, s
@kindex C-, s
@item C-x @@ a s
@kindex C-x @@ a s
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-tune-in-radio-search

@format
Search Tune-In Radio.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-unhex-uri
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-unhex-uri  (uri)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-unhex-uri

@format
UnEscape URI

(fn URI)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-units
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-units   
@table @kbd
@item C-e x u
@kindex C-e x u
@item <fn> x u
@kindex <fn> x u
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-units

@format
Run units in a comint sub-process.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-vc-n
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-n   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-vc-n

@format
Accelerator for VC viewer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer  (console)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x v
@kindex C-e x v
@item <fn> x v
@kindex <fn> x v
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer

@format
View contents of specified virtual console.

(fn CONSOLE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-mode   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-mode

@format
Major mode for interactively viewing virtual console contents.

key             binding
---             -------

C-l		emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-refresh

This mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-refresh
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-refresh   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-refresh

@format
Refresh view of VC we’re viewing.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-vi-as-su-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-vi-as-su-file  (file)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-vi-as-su-file

@format
Launch sudo vi on specified file in a terminal.

(fn FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-m-player-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-m-player-mode   
@table @kbd
@item C-; :
@kindex C-; :
@item C-x @@ h :
@kindex C-x @@ h :
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-m-player-mode

@format
Buffer menu filtered by  m-player mode.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-mode  (mode)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-mode

@format
Display list of buffers filtered by specified mode.

(fn MODE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-this-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-this-mode   
@table @kbd
@item C-' m
@kindex C-' m
@item C-, c
@kindex C-, c
@item C-x @@ a c
@kindex C-x @@ a c
@item C-x @@ s m
@kindex C-x @@ s m
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-view-buffers-filtered-by-this-mode

@format
Buffer menu filtered by  mode of current-buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-voice-sampler
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-voice-sampler  (personality)
@findex emacspeak-wizards-voice-sampler

@format
Read a personality  and apply it to the current line.

(fn PERSONALITY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-xl-display
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-xl-display   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-xl-display

@format
Called to set up preview of an XL file.
Assumes we are in a buffer visiting a .xls file.
Previews those contents as HTML and nukes the buffer
visiting the xls file.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode   
@findex emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode

@format
Major mode for browsing XL spreadsheets.

XL Sheets are converted to HTML and previewed using a browser.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘text-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-wizards-xl-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-yql-lookup
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-yql-lookup  (symbols)
@table @kbd
@item C-e x Q
@kindex C-e x Q
@item <fn> x Q
@kindex <fn> x Q
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-yql-lookup

@format
Lookup quotes for specified stock symbols.
Symbols are separated by whitespace.

(fn SYMBOLS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-wizards-yql-quotes
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-wizards-yql-quotes   
@table @kbd
@item C-e x q
@kindex C-e x q
@item <fn> x q
@kindex <fn> x q
@end table

@findex emacspeak-wizards-yql-quotes

@format
Display quotes using YQL API.
Symbols are taken from ‘emacspeak-wizards-personal-portfolio’.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-wizards Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-clipboard-file
File used to save Emacspeak clipboard.
The emacspeak clipboard provides a convenient mechanism for exchanging
information between different Emacs sessions.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-curl-cookie-store
Cookie store used by Curl.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-emergency-tts-server
TTS server to use in an emergency.
Set this to a TTS server that is known to work at all times.
If you are debugging another speech server and that server
gets wedged for some reason,
you can use command emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart
to get speech back using the reliable TTS server.
It’s useful to bind the above command to a convenient key.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory
File holding telephone directory.
This is just a text file, and we use grep to search it.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory-command
Command used to look up names in the telephone
directory.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ssh-tts-server
SSH TTS server to use by default.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-curl-program
Name of curl executable.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-dvi2txt-program
Program for converting dvi  to txt.
Set this to nil if you do not want to use the DVI wizard.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-find-switches-that-need-quoting
Find switches whose args need quoting.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-find-switches-widget
Widget to get find switch.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-links-program
Name of links executable.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-lynx-program
Lynx executable.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-pdf-to-text-options
options to Command for running pdftotext.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-pdf-to-text-program
Command for running pdftotext.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-personal-portfolio
Set this to the stock tickers you want to check. Default is
GAFA. Tickers are separated by white-space and are automatically
sorted in lexical order with duplicates removed when saving.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-ppthtml-program
Program for converting PPT  to HTML.
Set this to nil if you do not want to use the PPTHTML wizard.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-project-shells
List of shell-name/initial-directory pairs.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-spot-words-extension
Default file extension  used when spotting words.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-tramp-locations
Tramp locations used by Emacspeak tramp wizard.
Locations added here via custom can be opened using command
emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location
bound to M-x emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-command
Command line for dumping out virtual console.
Make sure you have access to /dev/vcs* by adding yourself to the appropriate group.
On Ubuntu and Debian this is group ‘tty’.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-xlhtml-program
Program for converting XL to HTML.
Set this to nil if you do not want to use the XLHTML wizard.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-yql-quotes-row-filter
Template used to audio-format  rows.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-woman
@section emacspeak-woman

WOMAN ==  Man pages implemented in Emacs Lisp

@node emacspeak-xkcd
@section emacspeak-xkcd

XKCD ==  XKCD In Emacs
View XKCD comics in Emacs.
Speech enables package xkcd
Augments it by displaying the alt text and the transcript.

@subsection emacspeak-xkcd Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-xkcd-open-explanation-browser
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xkcd-open-explanation-browser   
@findex emacspeak-xkcd-open-explanation-browser

@format
Open explanation of current xkcd in default browser
@end format
@end deffn

@node emacspeak-xml-shell
@section emacspeak-xml-shell

Use xmllint from package libxml2 to implement 
an XML browser.
Uses the interactive shell provided by xmllint to do the hard
work.
Results of traversal are transformed  using xsltproc from libxslt 

@subsection emacspeak-xml-shell Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell  (system-id)
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell

@format
Start Xml-Shell on contents of system-id.

(fn SYSTEM-ID)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current   
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current

@format
Display current node.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-result
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-result  (xpath)
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-result

@format
Display XPath  and display its result using W3.

(fn XPATH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children   
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children

@format
Navigate down to the children of current node.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child   
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child

@format
Navigate forward  to the next child  of current node.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent   
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent

@format
Navigate up to the parent of current node.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child   
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child

@format
Navigate backward  to the previous child  of current node.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xml-shell-mode
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xml-shell-mode   
@findex emacspeak-xml-shell-mode

@format
XML Shell

Interactive XML browser.
key             binding
---             -------

C-c		Prefix Command
<down>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-children
<left>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-previous-child
<right>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-next-child
<up>		emacspeak-xml-shell-goto-parent

C-c C-v		emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-result
C-c v		emacspeak-xml-shell-browse-current

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘comint-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘emacspeak-xml-shell-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-xml-shell Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-command
Executable that provides the XML browser shell.
Default is xmllint.
If you want an XML Shell on steroids get XSH and use emacs custom to
customize the default to be xsh.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-hooks
Start up hooks run after XML browser  process is started.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-options
Command-line options for XML browse command.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-xslt
XSL transform to apply when displaying current node.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-xref
@section emacspeak-xref

XREF ==  Cross-references in source code.
This is part of Emacs 25.
This module speech-enables xref

@node emacspeak-xslt
@section emacspeak-xslt

libxml and libxsl are XML libraries for GNOME.
xsltproc is a  xslt processor using libxsl
this module defines routines for applying xsl transformations
using xsltproc

@subsection emacspeak-xslt Commands

@subsubsection emacspeak-xslt-view
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xslt-view  (style url)
@findex emacspeak-xslt-view

@format
Browse URL with specified XSL style.

(fn STYLE URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xslt-view-file
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xslt-view-file  (style file)
@findex emacspeak-xslt-view-file

@format
Transform ‘file’ using ‘style’ and preview via browse-url.

(fn STYLE FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xslt-view-region
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xslt-view-region  (style start end &optional unescape-charent)
@table @kbd
@item C-; w R
@kindex C-; w R
@item C-x @@ h w R
@kindex C-x @@ h w R
@end table

@findex emacspeak-xslt-view-region

@format
Browse XML region with specified XSL style.

(fn STYLE START END &optional UNESCAPE-CHARENT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection emacspeak-xslt-view-xml
@deffn {Command} emacspeak-xslt-view-xml  (style url &optional unescape-charent)
@findex emacspeak-xslt-view-xml

@format
Browse XML URL with specified XSL style.

(fn STYLE URL &optional UNESCAPE-CHARENT)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection emacspeak-xslt Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-keep-errors
If non-nil, xslt errors will be preserved in an errors buffer.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-nuke-null-char
If T null chars in the region will be nuked.
This is useful when handling bad HTML.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-options
Options passed to xsltproc.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-program
Name of XSLT transformation engine.

@end defvar

@node emacspeak-yasnippet
@section emacspeak-yasnippet

YASNIPPET ==  Template based editting using snippets.

@subsection emacspeak-yasnippet Options

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-yas-field-highlight-personality
Personality used for yas-field-highlight-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.

@end defvar

@node espeak-voices
@section espeak-voices

This module defines the various voices used in voice-lock mode by the ESpeak TTS engine.

@subsection espeak-voices Commands

@subsubsection espeak
@deffn {Command} espeak   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d C-e
@kindex C-e d C-e
@item <fn> d C-e
@kindex <fn> d C-e
@end table

@findex espeak

@format
Start ESpeak engine.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection espeak-voices Options

@defvar {User Option} espeak-default-speech-rate
Default speech rate for eSpeak.

@end defvar

@node g
@section g

Top-level bootstrap module for Google Client.
Loads in authentication module and sets up per-service
modules:
gmaps: Google Maps 
gweb: Google Web Search
gblogger: Blogger
gphoto: Google Photos 

@node g-app
@section g-app

Common Code  For Google Apps
Used by modules like gphoto, gblogger etc.

@subsection g-app Commands

@subsubsection g-app-mode
@deffn {Command} g-app-mode   
@findex g-app-mode

@format
Major mode for APP interaction

\@{g-app-mode-map

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘nxml-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘g-app-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection g-app-post-entry
@deffn {Command} g-app-post-entry   
@findex g-app-post-entry

@format
Post buffer contents  as  updated entry.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection g-app-publish
@deffn {Command} g-app-publish   
@findex g-app-publish

@format
Publish current entry.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection g-app-put-entry
@deffn {Command} g-app-put-entry   
@findex g-app-put-entry

@format
PUT buffer contents as new entry.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection g-app-view
@deffn {Command} g-app-view  (auth-handle feed-url)
@findex g-app-view

@format
View feed using auth credentials in auth-handle.

(fn AUTH-HANDLE FEED-URL)
@end format
@end deffn

@node g-auth
@section g-auth

Google Auth using Curl
Implements an authentication component for use in Google
Clients -- see http://code.google.com/apis/accounts/AuthForInstalledApps.html

@subsection g-auth Options

@defvar {User Option} g-user-email
Google account  address.

@end defvar

@node g-utils
@section g-utils

Common Code  e.g. helper functions.
Used by modules like gphoto, gblogger etc.

@subsection g-utils Options

@defvar {User Option} g-atom-edit-filter
XSLT transform used to tidy up an entry before posting.
For now, this is blogger specific.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-atom-titles-xsl
XSLT transform to convert Atom feed to alist of title/url pairs.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-atom-view-xsl
XSLT transform to convert Atom feed to HTML.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-cookie-jar
Cookie jar used for Google services.
Customize this to live on your local disk.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-curl-common-options
Common options to pass to all Curl invocations.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-curl-debug
Set to T to see Curl stderr output.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-curl-program
Name of CURL executable.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-html-handler
Function that processes HTML.
Receives buffer containing HTML as its argument.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-url-under-point
Function used to get URL from current context.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} g-xslt-program
XSLT Processor.

@end defvar

@node gm-nnir
@section gm-nnir

Makes search GMail more convenient.
IMap search operators, GMail search extensions.

@subsection gm-nnir Commands

@subsubsection gm-nnir-group-make-gmail-group
@deffn {Command} gm-nnir-group-make-gmail-group   
@findex gm-nnir-group-make-gmail-group

@format
Use GMail search syntax exclusively.
See https://support.google.com/mail/answer/7190?hl=en for syntax.
Default is to search All Mail when not on a Group line.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gm-nnir-group-make-nnir-group
@deffn {Command} gm-nnir-group-make-nnir-group   
@findex gm-nnir-group-make-nnir-group

@format
GMail equivalent of gnus-group-make-nnir-group.
Default is to search All Mail when not on a group.
@end format
@end deffn

@node gmaps
@section gmaps

Implements the Google Maps API

@subsection gmaps Commands

@subsubsection gmaps
@deffn {Command} gmaps  (&rest rest)
@table @kbd
@item C-; e
@kindex C-; e
@item C-x @@ h e
@kindex C-x @@ h e
@end table

@findex gmaps

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps’

Google Maps Interaction.

(fn)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-bicycling-directions
@deffn {Command} gmaps-bicycling-directions  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-bicycling-directions

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-bicycling-directions’

Biking directions from Google Maps.

(fn ORIGIN DESTINATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-directions
@deffn {Command} gmaps-directions  (origin destination mode)
@findex gmaps-directions

@format
Display  directions obtained from Google Maps.

(fn ORIGIN DESTINATION MODE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-driving-directions
@deffn {Command} gmaps-driving-directions  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-driving-directions

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-driving-directions’

Driving directions from Google Maps.

(fn ORIGIN DESTINATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-mode
@deffn {Command} gmaps-mode   
@findex gmaps-mode

@format
A Google Maps front-end for the Emacspeak desktop.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘gmaps-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

TAB		forward-button
ESC		Prefix Command
SPC		gmaps-place-details
[		backward-page
]		forward-page
b		gmaps-bicycling-directions
c		gmaps-set-current-location
d		gmaps-driving-directions
f		gmaps-set-current-filter
n		gmaps-places-nearby
r		gmaps-set-current-radius
s		gmaps-places-search
t		gmaps-transit-directions
w		gmaps-walking-directions

M-i		backward-button

@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-place-details
@deffn {Command} gmaps-place-details  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-place-details

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-place-details’

Display details for place at point.
Insert reviews if already displaying details.

(fn)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-place-reviews
@deffn {Command} gmaps-place-reviews   
@findex gmaps-place-reviews

@format
Display reviews for place at point.
Place details need to have been expanded first.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-places-nearby
@deffn {Command} gmaps-places-nearby  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-places-nearby

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-places-nearby’

Find places near current location.
Uses default radius. optional interactive prefix arg clears any active filters.

(fn &optional CLEAR-FILTER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-places-search
@deffn {Command} gmaps-places-search  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-places-search

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-places-search’

Perform a places search.
Use this only if you dont know the locality  of the place you’re looking for.
Optional  prefix arg clears any active filters.

(fn QUERY &optional CLEAR-FILTER)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-set-current-filter
@deffn {Command} gmaps-set-current-filter  (&optional all)
@findex gmaps-set-current-filter

@format
Set up filter in current buffer.
Optional interactive prefix arg prompts for all filter fields.

(fn &optional ALL)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-set-current-location
@deffn {Command} gmaps-set-current-location  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-set-current-location

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-set-current-location’

 Set current location.

(fn ADDRESS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-set-current-radius
@deffn {Command} gmaps-set-current-radius  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-set-current-radius

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-set-current-radius’

Set current radius

(fn RADIUS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-transit-directions
@deffn {Command} gmaps-transit-directions  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-transit-directions

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-transit-directions’

Transit directions from Google Maps.

(fn ORIGIN DESTINATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection gmaps-walking-directions
@deffn {Command} gmaps-walking-directions  (&rest rest)
@findex gmaps-walking-directions

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-gmaps-walking-directions’

Walking directions from Google Maps.

(fn ORIGIN DESTINATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection gmaps Options

@defvar {User Option} gmaps-places-key
Places API  key --- goto  https://code.google.com/apis/console to get one.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} gweb-my-address
Location address. Setting this updates gweb-my-location coordinates  via geocoding.

@end defvar

@node gweb
@section gweb

Provide Google services --- such as search, search-based completion etc.
For use from within Emacs tools.
This is meant to be fast and efficient --- and uses WebAPIs as opposed to HTML  scraping.

@node ladspa
@section ladspa

This module  uses tools from the Ladspa SDK  to expose
Ladspa plugins in a consistent way to elisp.
The goal is to make it easy to inspect Ladspa Plugins,
And invoke them easily from  Ladspa host applications such as MPlayer.
See
@url{http://emacspeak.blogspot.com/2015/12/a-ladspa-work-bench-for-emacspeak.html}
Some Ladspa Packages that provide plugins:
sudo apt-get install zam-plugins wah-plugins vco-plugins tap-plugins 
swh-plugins rev-plugins mcp-plugins liquidsoap-plugin-ladspa 
ladspa-foo-plugins invada-studio-plugins-ladspa fil-plugins 

@subsection ladspa Commands

@subsubsection ladspa
@deffn {Command} ladspa  (&optional refresh)
@findex ladspa

@format
Launch Ladspa workbench.

(fn &optional REFRESH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection ladspa-analyse-plugin-at-point
@deffn {Command} ladspa-analyse-plugin-at-point   
@findex ladspa-analyse-plugin-at-point

@format
Analyse plugin at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection ladspa-edit-control
@deffn {Command} ladspa-edit-control   
@findex ladspa-edit-control

@format
Edit Ladspa control  at point by prompting for control values.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection ladspa-instantiate
@deffn {Command} ladspa-instantiate   
@findex ladspa-instantiate

@format
Instantiate plugin at point by prompting for control values.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection ladspa-mode
@deffn {Command} ladspa-mode   
@findex ladspa-mode

@format
A Ladspa workbench for the Emacspeak desktop.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘ladspa-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

RET		ladspa-instantiate
SPC		ladspa-analyse-plugin-at-point
a		emacspeak-m-player-add-ladspa
d		emacspeak-m-player-delete-ladspa
e		ladspa-edit-control
n		next-line
p		previous-line

@end format
@end deffn

@node mac-voices
@section mac-voices

This module defines the various voices used in voice-lock mode by Mac TTS.

@subsection mac-voices Options

@defvar {User Option} mac-default-speech-rate
Default speech rate for mac.

@end defvar

@node outloud-voices
@section outloud-voices

This module defines the various voices used in voice-lock mode.
This module is IBM ViaVoice Outloud specific.

@subsection outloud-voices Commands

@subsubsection outloud
@deffn {Command} outloud  (&optional device)
@table @kbd
@item C-e d C-o
@kindex C-e d C-o
@item <fn> d C-o
@kindex <fn> d C-o
@end table

@findex outloud

@format
Select Outloud server.

(fn &optional DEVICE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection outloud-32
@deffn {Command} outloud-32   
@findex outloud-32

@format
Select 32-Outloud server.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection outloud-voices Options

@defvar {User Option} outloud-default-speech-rate
Default speech rate for outloud.

@end defvar

@node plain-voices
@section plain-voices

This module defines the various voices used in voice-lock mode.
This module is Plain  i.e. suitable for a device  for which you haven't yet implemented appropriate voice-locking controls

@node soundscape
@section soundscape

Soundscapes @url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundscape}
define an acoustic environment.
Boodler  at @url{http://boodler.org} is a
Python-based SoundScape generator.
To use this module, first install boodler.
Then install the soundscape packages (*.boop) files available
at @url{http://boodler.org/lib}.
Make sure boodler works and produces audio in your environment.
finally install the Boodler packages  from
emacspeak/scapes from the Emacspeak GitHub repository by running
@code{cd emacspeak/scapes; make }

When  boodler is set up and all packages installed, copy
file emacspeak/scapes/soundscapes  to ~/.boodler/Collection.
The above file lists all installed SoundScapes.
Directory emacspeak/scapes also contains
additional Boodler Agents and SoundScapes  that
I have created for use with Emacspeak.

 Module soundscape.el  defines Emacs conveniences for running
Soundscapes. Main Entry Points:

@itemize
@item M-x soundscape-toggle -- Enables or
disables automatic SoundScapes.
@item M-x soundscape --
runs a named SoundScape
@item M-x soundscape-stop -- Stops a specified running Soundscape.
@item M-x soundscape-kill -- Kills all running Soundscapes.
@end itemize

When automatic Soundscapes are enabled, SoundScapes are
 started and stopped based on the current major
mode. Active Soundscape  are displayed as part of the minor-mode-alist.
Command emacspeak-speak-minor-mode-line can be used to have this spoken.

Thus, SoundScapes can be thought of as reflecting the
@emph{mood} of the current @emph{mode}.
This package defines a single @var{soundscape-default-theme}
that is loaded using @code{(soundscape-load soundscape-default-theme)}.
Emacs modes that provide similar functionality e.g.,
communication == email, IM, ... map to  the same @emph{mood}.

@subsection soundscape Commands

@subsubsection soundscape
@deffn {Command} soundscape  (scape)
@table @kbd
@item C-' s
@kindex C-' s
@item C-x @@ s s
@kindex C-x @@ s s
@end table

@findex soundscape

@format
Play soundscape.

(fn SCAPE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-kill
@deffn {Command} soundscape-kill   
@findex soundscape-kill

@format
Stop all running soundscapes.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-listener
@deffn {Command} soundscape-listener  (&optional restart)
@findex soundscape-listener

@format
Start  a Soundscape listener.
Listener is loaded with all Soundscapes defined in ‘soundscape-default-theme’ .
Optional interactive prefix arg restarts the listener if already running.

(fn &optional RESTART)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-listener-shutdown
@deffn {Command} soundscape-listener-shutdown   
@findex soundscape-listener-shutdown

@format
Shutdown listener.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-remote
@deffn {Command} soundscape-remote  (names)
@findex soundscape-remote

@format
Activate scapes named names.

(fn NAMES)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-restart
@deffn {Command} soundscape-restart  (&optional device)
@table @kbd
@item C-' r
@kindex C-' r
@item C-x @@ s r
@kindex C-x @@ s r
@end table

@findex soundscape-restart

@format
Restart Soundscape  environment.
With prefix arg ‘device’, prompt for a alsa/ladspa device.
Caches most recently used device, which then becomes the default for future invocations.

(fn &optional DEVICE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-stop
@deffn {Command} soundscape-stop  (scape)
@table @kbd
@item C-' S
@kindex C-' S
@item C-x @@ s S
@kindex C-x @@ s S
@end table

@findex soundscape-stop

@format
Stop running Soundscape.

(fn SCAPE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-theme
@deffn {Command} soundscape-theme   
@findex soundscape-theme

@format
Shows default theme in a special buffer.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-toggle
@deffn {Command} soundscape-toggle   
@table @kbd
@item C-' t
@kindex C-' t
@item C-x @@ s t
@kindex C-x @@ s t
@end table

@findex soundscape-toggle

@format
Toggle automatic SoundScapes.
When turned on, Soundscapes are automatically run based on current major mode.
Run command M-x soundscape-theme to see the default mode->mood mapping.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection soundscape-update-mood
@deffn {Command} soundscape-update-mood  (&optional prompt-mode)
@table @kbd
@item C-' u
@kindex C-' u
@item C-x @@ s u
@kindex C-x @@ s u
@end table

@findex soundscape-update-mood

@format
Update mood/scape mapping for current  mode.
The  updated mapping is not persisted.
Optional interactive prefix arg ‘prompt-mode’ prompts for the mode.

(fn &optional PROMPT-MODE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection soundscape Options

@defvar {User Option} soundscape-data
Soundscape data directory.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} soundscape-idle-delay
Number of seconds of idle time
before soundscapes are synchronized with current mode.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} soundscape-manager-options
User customizable options list passed to boodler.
Defaults specify alsa as the output and set master volume to 0.5

@end defvar

@node sox
@section sox

This module defines a convenient speech-enabled
interface for editing mp3 and wav files using SoX.

Launching M-x sox  creates a special interaction buffer
that provides single keystroke commands for editing and
applying effects to a selected sound file. For adding mp3
support to sox, do

sudo apt-get libsox-fmt-mp3 install

This module provides support for ladspa effects using module ladspa.el.
To use ladspa effects with SoX, you need a relatively new build of Sox;
The stock SoX that is package for Debian/Ubuntu  does not always work.
This module can be used independent of Emacspeak.

@subsection sox Commands

@subsubsection sox-add-effect
@deffn {Command} sox-add-effect  (name)
@findex sox-add-effect

@format
Adds  effect at the end of the effect list

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-delete-effect-at-point
@deffn {Command} sox-delete-effect-at-point  (&rest rest)
@findex sox-delete-effect-at-point

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-sox-delete-effect-at-point’

Delete effect at point.

(fn)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-edit-effect-at-point
@deffn {Command} sox-edit-effect-at-point   
@findex sox-edit-effect-at-point

@format
Edit effect at point.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-mode
@deffn {Command} sox-mode   
@findex sox-mode

@format
An audio workbench for the Emacspeak desktop.

In addition to any hooks its parent mode ‘special-mode’ might have run,
this mode runs the hook ‘sox-mode-hook’, as the final or penultimate step
during initialization.

key             binding
---             -------

@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-open-file
@deffn {Command} sox-open-file  (&rest rest)
@findex sox-open-file

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-sox-open-file’

Open specified snd-file on the Audio Workbench.

(fn SND-FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-play
@deffn {Command} sox-play   
@findex sox-play

@format
Play sound from current context.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-refresh
@deffn {Command} sox-refresh  (&rest rest)
@findex sox-refresh

@format
:around advice: ‘ad-Advice-sox-refresh’

Redraw Audio Workbench.

(fn)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-save
@deffn {Command} sox-save  (save-file)
@findex sox-save

@format
Save context to  file after prompting.

(fn SAVE-FILE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-set-effect
@deffn {Command} sox-set-effect  (name)
@findex sox-set-effect

@format
Set effect.

(fn NAME)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-show-timestamp
@deffn {Command} sox-show-timestamp   
@findex sox-show-timestamp

@format
Show timestamp   in stream.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-stop
@deffn {Command} sox-stop   
@findex sox-stop

@format
Stop currently playing  sound from current context.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection sox Options

@defvar {User Option} sox-edit
Location of SoX utility.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} sox-play
Location of play from SoX utility.

@end defvar

@node sox-gen
@section sox-gen

Provides binaural audio along with pre-defined themes.
This module can be used independent of Emacspeak.

@subsection Binaural Beats  Using SoX

A binaural beat is an auditory illusion perceived when two different
pure-tone sine waves, both with frequencies lower than 1500 Hz, with
less than a 40 Hz difference between them, are presented to a listener
dichotically (one through each ear). For example, if a 530 Hz pure tone
is presented to a subject's right ear, while a 520 Hz pure tone is
presented to the subject's left ear, the listener will perceive the
auditory illusion of a third tone, in addition to the two pure-tones
presented to each ear. The third sound is called a binaural beat, and in
this example would have a perceived pitch correlating to a frequency of
10 Hz, that being the difference between the 530 Hz and 520 Hz pure
tones presented to each ear. For more details, see
@url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binaural_beats}.

This module implements a set of user-facing commands for generating
binaural beats. The commands are organized from high-level commands that
play predefined binaural beats to lower-level commands that can be
used to create new effect sequences.

All binaural beat sequences are played with a relatively low gain
--- they are designed to be heard in the background and when
effective blend fully into the background. You can increase the
overall volume of all binaural beat sequences by customizing
@defvar {User Option} sox-binaural-gain-offset to a positive value
@end defvar
--- default is 0.

@subsubsection High-Level Commands For Pre-Defined Binaural Beats

These commands can be called directly to play one of the predefined
binaural beats.

@itemize
@item @command{sox-rev-up}: A set of binaural beats designed for  use
at the start of the day. Transitions from @emph{Dream} -> @emph{Think}
->@emph{Act} -> @emph{Focus}.
@item @command{sox-wind-down}: A  set of binaural beats for winding down
at the end of the day. This can be thought of as the reverse of
@command{sox-rev-up} and the sequence transitions from @emph{Act} ->
@emph{Think} -> @emph{Dream} ->@emph{Sleep}.
@item @command{sox-turn-down}: Designed for falling asleep.
This sequence starts with a short period of @emph{Dream} before moving
to @emph{Sleep}.
@item @command{sox-relax}:  A variant of the previous sequence,
@code{sox-relax} spends equal time in @emph{Dream} and @emph{Sleep}.
@item @command{sox-binaural}: Provide a completion-based front-end to
playing any one of the predefined binaural effects (@emph{Delta},
@emph{Theta}, @emph{Alpha}, @emph{Beta}, or @emph{Gamma}. The previously
defined sequences are built up using these effects.
@item @command{sox-beats-binaural}: Plays a collection of binaural
beats, prompting for carrier and beat frequencies for each tone. The
predefined sequences listed earlier were created after first generating
experimental beat-sequences using this command.
@item @command{sox-slide-binaural}: Prompts for two binaural effects
(see above) and generates a binaural beat that @emph{slides} from the
first effect to the second over a specified duration.
@item @command{sox-chakras}: Pick  amongst one of a predefined set of
sequences designed for @emph{Chakra} meditation.
@item @command{sox-tone-binaural}: Generate a simple binaural beat
with a single carrier frequency.
@item @command{sox-tone-slide-binaural}: Generate a  tone that slides
from one binaural beat to another.
@end itemize

@subsection sox-gen Commands

@subsubsection sox-beats-binaural
@deffn {Command} sox-beats-binaural  (length beat-spec-list gain)
@findex sox-beats-binaural

@format
Play binaural audio with beat-spec specifying the various tones.
Param ‘beat-spec-list’ is a list of ‘(carrier beat) tupples.

(fn LENGTH BEAT-SPEC-LIST GAIN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-binaural
@deffn {Command} sox-binaural  (name duration)
@table @kbd
@item C-, b
@kindex C-, b
@item C-x @@ a b
@kindex C-x @@ a b
@end table

@findex sox-binaural

@format
Play specified binaural effect.

(fn NAME DURATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-chakras
@deffn {Command} sox-chakras  (theme duration)
@findex sox-chakras

@format
Play each chakra for specified duration.
Parameter ‘theme’ specifies variant.

(fn THEME DURATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-relax
@deffn {Command} sox-relax  (length)
@findex sox-relax

@format
Play relax set of  binaural beats.
Param ‘length’ specifies total duration.

(fn LENGTH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-rev-up
@deffn {Command} sox-rev-up  (length)
@findex sox-rev-up

@format
Play rev-up set of  binaural beats.
Param ‘length’ specifies total duration.

(fn LENGTH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-slide-binaural
@deffn {Command} sox-slide-binaural  (name-1 name-2 duration)
@findex sox-slide-binaural

@format
Play specified binaural slide from ‘name-1’ to ‘name-2’.

(fn NAME-1 NAME-2 DURATION)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-tone-binaural
@deffn {Command} sox-tone-binaural  (length freq beat gain)
@findex sox-tone-binaural

@format
Play binaural audio with carrier frequency ‘freq’, beat ‘beat’, and
gain ‘gain’.

(fn LENGTH FREQ BEAT GAIN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-tone-slide-binaural
@deffn {Command} sox-tone-slide-binaural  (length freq beat-start beat-end gain)
@findex sox-tone-slide-binaural

@format
Play binaural audio with carrier frequency ‘freq’, beat
‘beat-start’ -> ‘beat-end’, and gain ‘gain’.

(fn LENGTH FREQ BEAT-START BEAT-END GAIN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-turn-down
@deffn {Command} sox-turn-down  (length)
@findex sox-turn-down

@format
Play turn-down set of  binaural beats.
Param ‘length’ specifies total duration.

(fn LENGTH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection sox-wind-down
@deffn {Command} sox-wind-down  (length)
@findex sox-wind-down

@format
Play wind-down set of  binaural beats.
Param ‘length’ specifies total duration.

(fn LENGTH)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection sox-gen Options

@defvar {User Option} sox-binaural-gain-offset
User specified offset that is added to default gain when generating
tones using SoX, e.g., for binaural beats.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} sox-binaural-slider-scale
Scale factor used to compute slide duration when moving from one
binaural beat to another.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} sox-gen-p
Should sox-gen commands attempt to invoke SoX.

@end defvar

@node stack-f
@section stack-f

The stack is implemented as a linked list with a tag 'STACK
as the first element.  All entries and removals are done using
destructive functions.

@node tetris
@section tetris

@node toy-braille
@section toy-braille

This is a bit of toy code to write in braille.

To try this, load this file (`M-x load-file path/to/toy-braille.el'), then do:

  M-: (get-toy-braille-string "just a test")

That's just a toy, meant as an excuse and maybe a tool to learn a
bit of braille, nothing more.

Unicode fonts are needed.

You can try:

  M-: (set-default-font "-*-unifont-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*")

or

  M-: (set-default-font "-*-clearlyu-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso10646-*")

(it will only work if the relative font is installed and properly configured).

References:

  http://www.nbp.org/ic/nbp/braille/index.html

  http://www.unicode.org/Public/4.0-Update1/UnicodeData-4.0.1.txt

@node tts
@section tts

Define data structure and API for setting up, accessing and manipulating TTS environment.
When complete, this will  be used by the various engine configuration functions to set everything in one structure.

@subsection tts Commands

@subsubsection tts-set-chunk-separator
@deffn {Command} tts-set-chunk-separator  (chunk-separator)
@findex tts-set-chunk-separator

@format
Set tts chunk-separator.

(fn CHUNK-SEPARATOR)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-set-punctuations
@deffn {Command} tts-set-punctuations  (punctuations)
@findex tts-set-punctuations

@format
Set tts punctuations.

(fn PUNCTUATIONS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-set-rate
@deffn {Command} tts-set-rate  (rate)
@findex tts-set-rate

@format
Set tts rate.

(fn RATE)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-toggle-allcaps
@deffn {Command} tts-toggle-allcaps   
@findex tts-toggle-allcaps

@format
Toggle field allcaps in current tts-state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-toggle-capitalize
@deffn {Command} tts-toggle-capitalize   
@findex tts-toggle-capitalize

@format
Toggle field capitalize in current tts-state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-toggle-quiet
@deffn {Command} tts-toggle-quiet   
@findex tts-toggle-quiet

@format
Toggle field quiet in current tts-state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars
@deffn {Command} tts-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars   
@findex tts-toggle-speak-nonprinting-chars

@format
Toggle field speak-nonprinting-chars in current tts-state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-toggle-split-caps
@deffn {Command} tts-toggle-split-caps   
@findex tts-toggle-split-caps

@format
Toggle field split-caps in current tts-state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-toggle-strip-octals
@deffn {Command} tts-toggle-strip-octals   
@findex tts-toggle-strip-octals

@format
Toggle field strip-octals in current tts-state.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection tts-toggle-use-auditory-icons
@deffn {Command} tts-toggle-use-auditory-icons   
@findex tts-toggle-use-auditory-icons

@format
Toggle field use-auditory-icons in current tts-state.
@end format
@end deffn

@node tts-cmds
@section tts-cmds

End-user TTS Commands implemented using tts-state. If this works
out, these will eventually replace the commands implemented in
dtk-speak.el

@subsection tts-cmds Commands

@subsubsection tts-cmd-set-rate
@deffn {Command} tts-cmd-set-rate  (rate &optional prefix)
@findex tts-cmd-set-rate

@format
Set speech rate.

(fn RATE &optional PREFIX)
@end format
@end deffn

@node voice-setup
@section voice-setup

A voice is to audio as a font is to a visual display.
A personality is to audio as a face is to a visual display.

Voice-lock-mode is a minor mode that causes your comments to be
spoken in one personality, strings in another, reserved words in another,
documentation strings in another, and so on.

Comments will be spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality'.
Strings will be spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-string-personality'.
Function and variable names (in their defining forms) will be
 spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-function-name-personality'.
Reserved words will be spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-keyword-personality'.

To make the text you type be voiceified, use M-x voice-lock-mode.
When this minor mode is on, the voices of the current line are
updated with every insertion or deletion.

How faces map to voices: TTS engine specific modules e.g.,
dectalk-voices.el and outloud-voices.el define a standard set
of voice names.  This module maps standard "personality"
names to these pre-defined voices.  It does this via special
form def-voice-font which takes a personality name, a voice
name and a face name to set up the mapping between face and
personality, and personality and voice.
Newer Emacspeak modules should use voice-setup-add-map when
defining face->personality mappings.
Older code calls def-voice-font directly, but over time those
calls will be changed to the more succinct form provided by
voice-setup-add-map. For use from other modules, also see
function voice-setup-map-face which is useful when mapping a
single face.
Both voice-setup-add-map and voice-setup-map-face call
special form def-voice-font.

Special form def-voice-font sets up the personality name to
be available via custom.  new voices can be defined using CSS
style specifications see special form defvoice Voices defined
via defvoice can be customized via custom see the
documentation for defvoice.

@subsection voice-setup Commands

@subsubsection voice-lock-mode
@deffn {Command} voice-lock-mode  (&optional arg)
@findex voice-lock-mode

@format
Toggle voice lock mode.

(fn &optional ARG)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection voice-lock-toggle
@deffn {Command} voice-lock-toggle   
@table @kbd
@item C-e d v
@kindex C-e d v
@item <fn> d v
@kindex <fn> d v
@end table

@findex voice-lock-toggle

@format
Interactively toggle voice lock.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection voice-setup-describe-personality
@deffn {Command} voice-setup-describe-personality  (personality)
@table @kbd
@item C-h "
@kindex C-h "
@item <f1> "
@kindex <f1> "
@item <help> "
@kindex <help> "
@end table

@findex voice-setup-describe-personality

@format
Describe specified voice --- analogous to C-h /.
When called interactively, ‘personality’ defaults to first personality at point.
If there are multiple personalities at point,
these are available via minibuffer history.

(fn PERSONALITY)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection voice-setup-list-voices
@deffn {Command} voice-setup-list-voices  (pattern)
@findex voice-setup-list-voices

@format
Show all defined voice-face mappings  in a help buffer.
Sample text to use comes from variable
  ‘voice-setup-sample-text’. 

(fn PATTERN)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection voice-setup-toggle-silence-personality
@deffn {Command} voice-setup-toggle-silence-personality   
@table @kbd
@item C-e M-q
@kindex C-e M-q
@item <fn> M-q
@kindex <fn> M-q
@end table

@findex voice-setup-toggle-silence-personality

@format
Toggle audibility of personality under point  .
If personality at point is currently audible, its
face->personality map is cached in a buffer local variable, and
its face->personality map is replaced by face->inaudible.  If
personality at point is inaudible, and there is a cached value,
then the original face->personality mapping is restored.  In
either case, the buffer is refontified to have the new mapping
take effect.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection voice-setup Options

@defvar {User Option} voice-animate-extra-settings
Adds extra animation  to current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-animate-medium-settings
Adds medium animation  current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-animate-settings
Animates current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-annotate-settings
Indicate annotation.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-and-animate-settings
Bolden and animate  current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-extra-settings
Extra bolden current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-medium-settings
Add medium bolden current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-settings
Bolden current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-brighten-extra-settings
Extra brighten current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-brighten-medium-settings
Brighten  (medium) current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-brighten-settings
Brighten current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-indent-settings
Indicate indentation .

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lighten-extra-settings
Add extra lightness to  current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lighten-medium-settings
Add medium lightness to  current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lighten-settings
Lighten current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-global-modes
Modes for which Voice Lock mode is automagically turned on.
Global Voice Lock mode is controlled by the command ‘global-voice-lock-mode’.
If nil, means no modes have Voice Lock mode automatically turned on.
If t, all modes that support Voice Lock mode have it automatically turned on.
If a list, it should be a list of ‘major-mode’ symbol names for which Voice Lock
mode should be automatically turned on.  The sense of the list is negated if it
begins with ‘not’.  For example:
 (c-mode c++-mode)
means that Voice Lock mode is turned on for buffers in C and C++ modes only.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-0-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 0 of ACSS structure to 8.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-1-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 1 of ACSS structure to 8.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-2-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 2 of ACSS structure to 8.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-3-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 3 of ACSS structure to 8.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-monotone-light-settings
Turns current voice into a light monotone.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-monotone-medium-settings
Turns current voice into a medium monotone.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-monotone-settings
Turns current voice into a monotone and speaks all punctuations.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-punctuations-all-settings
Turns current voice into one that  speaks all punctuations.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-punctuations-none-settings
Turns current voice into one that  speaks no punctuations.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-punctuations-some-settings
Turns current voice into one that  speaks some punctuations.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-setup-sample-text
Sample text used  when displaying available voices.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-smoothen-extra-settings
Extra smoothen current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-smoothen-medium-settings
Add medium smoothen current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-smoothen-settings
Smoothen current voice.

@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-womanize-1-settings
Apply first female voice.

@end defvar

@node xbacklight
@section xbacklight

Provide an emacs front-end to xbacklight.
This is a tool that controls the brightness on laptops.
To install xbacklight,
sudo apt-get install xbacklight

This module  is most   easily used in conjunction with  hydra:
M-x package-install hydra

@subsection xbacklight Commands

@subsubsection xbacklight-black
@deffn {Command} xbacklight-black   
@findex xbacklight-black

@format
Turn screen black.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection xbacklight-decrement
@deffn {Command} xbacklight-decrement   
@findex xbacklight-decrement

@format
Decrease brightness by  by one step.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection xbacklight-get
@deffn {Command} xbacklight-get   
@findex xbacklight-get

@format
Get current brightness level.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection xbacklight-increment
@deffn {Command} xbacklight-increment   
@findex xbacklight-increment

@format
Increase brightness by  by one step.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection xbacklight-set
@deffn {Command} xbacklight-set  (brightness)
@findex xbacklight-set

@format
Set brightness to  specified level.
‘brightness’ is a percentage value.

(fn BRIGHTNESS)
@end format
@end deffn

@subsubsection xbacklight-white
@deffn {Command} xbacklight-white   
@findex xbacklight-white

@format
Turn screen white.
@end format
@end deffn

@subsection xbacklight Options

@defvar {User Option} xbacklight-step
Step-size used when incrementing and decrementing brightness.

@end defvar

@node URL Templates 
@section URL Templates

This section documents a total of 86 URL Templates.

All of these URL templates can be invoked via command
 @kbd{M-x emacspeak-url-template-fetch} normally bound to
 @kbd{C-e u <fn> u}.
This command prompts for the name of the template, and completion
 is available via Emacs' minibuffer completion.
Each URL template carries out the following steps:
@itemize @bullet
@item Prompt for the relevant information.
@item Fetch the resulting URL using an appropriate fetcher.
@item Set up the resulting resource with appropriate
 customizations.
@end itemize

As an example, the URL template for weather forecasts
prompts for a location and speaks the forecast. 

@b{Air Traffic Control}

Find live streams for Air Traffic Control.

@b{Airport conditions}

Display airport conditions from the FAA.

@b{Amazon Product Details By ASIN}

Retrieve product details from Amazon by either ISBN or ASIN.

@b{Anonymize Google Search}

Logout from Google to do an anonymous search.

@b{BBC Genre Using IPlayer}

BBC iPlayer Genre

@b{BBC Podcast Directory}

BBC PodCast Directory

@b{BBC Program Guide}

Display interactive BBC Program Guide.

@b{BBC iPlayer}

BBC iPlayer

@b{Baseball Box Scores}

Display baseball Play By Play.

@b{Baseball Game Details}

Display baseball Play By Play.

@b{Baseball Game Index}

Display baseball Play By Play.

@b{Baseball Highlights}

Display baseball Video Highlights.

@b{Baseball scores}

Display baseball scores.

@b{Bing News}

Bing News results as RSS feed.

@b{Bing Search}

Bing results as RSS feed.

@b{Bloomberg Stock  Lookup}

Lookup Stock Quote information on Bloomberg. Ticker is of the form goog:us

@b{CNN Content}

Filter down to CNN content area.

@b{CNN Market Data }

CNN Money

@b{CNN technology }

CNN Technology news.

@b{CNNPodCasts}

List CNN Podcast media links.

@b{Dictionary Lookup}

Dictionary Lookup

@b{Earthquakes}

Show table of recent quakes.

@b{EmacsWiki Search}

EmacsWiki Search

@b{Finance Google Search}

Display content from Google Finance.

@b{Finance Google news}

Display content from Google Finance.

@b{Flight Status}

Show Flight Status.

@b{Flight Tracker}

Flight Tracker

@b{FreeSound}

Search FreeSound.

@b{GitHub Code Search}

GitHub Code Search.
Query can include filters such as:

<term>: Query Term.
extension:<ext> Filter by file extension
-filename:<pattern> Filter out files matching pattern.

@b{GitHub Search}

Perform a GitHub Search.

@b{GoLang Browse}

Browse GoLang package documentation.

@b{GoLang Lookup}

Lookup GoLang package documentation.

@b{GoLang Search}

Search GoLang package documentation.

@b{Google Category News}

Google News By Category.

@b{Google Image Search}

Google Image Search

@b{Google News Search}

Search Google news.

@b{Google NewsPaper}

Retrieve and speak Google News Overview.

@b{Google Regional News}

Google News By Region.

@b{Google Related Trends}

Display Related Query Trends.

@b{Google Scholar}

Google Scholar Search

@b{Google Transcoder}

Transcode site via Google.

@b{Google Trends}

Google Trends

@b{Google Trends Compared}

Display comparative trends.

@b{Google Webmaster Page Analysis}

Page Analysis From Google Webmaster tools.

@b{Google topical News}

Display specified news feed.

@b{Guardian RSS Feeds Directory}

Guardian Feeds  Directory

@b{Lightweight  weather from wunderground}

Pull light-weight weather feed for specified state/city.

@b{MLB Scorecard}

Show MLB Scorecard.

@b{MLB standings}

Display MLB standings.

@b{Market summary from Google}

Display financial market summary.

@b{Money Content }

CNN Money Content

@b{Multilingual dictionary via Google.}

Translate word using Google.
Source and target languages
are specified as two-letter language codes, e.g. en|de translates
from English to German

@b{NBA  standings}

Display NBA standings.

@b{NLS Bard Search}

Search NLS Bard Catalog. Login once before using this template.

@b{NY Times Mobile}

NYTimes Mobile Site

@b{NY Times RSS Feeds}

Display browsable list of NY Times RSS Feeds.

@b{Old Time Radio}

This months Old Time Radio Programming

@b{OpenLibrary}

Open Library Search

@b{Patent Search From Google}

Perform patent search via Google

@b{PodCast CNet}

Play Podcast from CNET

@b{RadioTime Browser}

RadioTime Entry point.

@b{RadioTime Categories}

RadioTime Categories .

@b{RadioTime Search}

RadioTime Search.

@b{Seeking Alpha Stock Search}

Seeking Alpha search.

@b{Sign in to Google}

Login to Google.

@b{StreamWorld Radio}

Play radio stream.
Example: kcbsFM.
Format is stationid+AM/FM.

@b{Structured Data Extractor}

Extract/Validate Structured Data.

@b{Tech News From CNet}

Display tech news from CNET

@b{Times Of India}

Retrieve Times Of India.
Set up URL rewrite rule to get print page.

@b{TuneIn Radio}

Translate StreamId to playable stream.

@b{UPS Packages}

Display package tracking information from UPS.

@b{Weather forecast from Weather Underground}

Weather forecast from weather underground mobile.

@b{Wiki Data Search}

Search WikiData.

@b{WordNet Search}

Look up term in WordNet.

@b{Yahoo Business News}

Retrieve and speak business section from Yahoo Daily News.

@b{Yahoo RSS Feeds}

List Yahoo RSS Feeds.

@b{fedex packages}

Display package tracking information from Fedex.

@b{html Google News Search}

Search Google news.

@b{html5IRC}

Show HTML5 IRC log.

@b{rss weather from wunderground}

Pull RSS weather feed for specified state/city.

@b{sourceforge Download}

Download specified file.

@b{sourceforge browse mirrors}

Retrieve download page at Sourceforge for specified project.

@b{sourceforge project}

Open specified project page at SourceForge.

@b{w3c IRC Logs}

Use this to pull up the
archived logs from the W3C IRC. You need to know the exact
name of the channel.

@b{w3c Lists}

Use this to pull up the
archived mail from the W3C list. You need to know the exact
name of the list.

@b{world CNN Content}

Filter down to CNN content area.

