
@node Background
@chapter Background

Emacspeak was originally developed in late 1994 and released as
Open Source in May 1995.  Since then, the system has been
regularly updated every six months to provide an up-to-date
@emph{Audio Desktop}. Here is a brief overview of some of the
significant aspects of the system, and the lessons learnt from
its development and use. The work on Emacspeak was presented at
CHI96 and the co-located Assets96 conference in Vancouver,
BC. This overview is being written nearly 15 years later to trace
the impact of the work.

@menu
* Speech-Enabling Applicationss::
* Audio Formatting And Aural CSS::
* Auditory Icons::
* Summary::
@end menu

@node Speech-Enabling Applicationss
@section Speech-Enabling Applicationss

The underlying thesis behind AsTeR (Audio System For Technical
Readings) and later Emacspeak is that information is
display-independent.  This leads to the insight that  
producing auditory renderings of information starting from the
true source of that information often produces better renderings
than those that result from  working from a modality-specific
representation; thus, attempting to speak visually rendered
information can often prove suboptimal. AsTeR  applied these
ideas to documents authored in @LaTeX{}; Emacspeak generalized these
ideas to user interfaces.

Emacspeak was therefore designed from the ground-up to enable
applications generate their own spoken feedback, rather than
having an external software program construct the spoken feedback
by responding to events in its environment. 

In Emacspeak, theory meets practice to deliver a working
implementation; Emacspeak leverages the power of Emacs and its
embedded Lisp interpreter to inject spoken feedback into
applications that run within Emacs. For a detailed overview on
how the  @emph{advice} mechanism in Emacs  is used, see the original
Assets96 paper, as well as the chapter on Emacspeak in the
OReilly publication entitled  @url{http://emacspeak.sourceforge.net/raman/publications/bc-emacspeak/publish-emacspeak-bc.html,Beautiful Code}.

@node Audio Formatting And Aural CSS
@section Audio Formatting And Aural CSS

AsTeR introduced the notion of @emph{audio formatting}  a concept
analogous to the well-understood notion of visual formatting. The
work on AsTeR coincided with the  Web being at its infancy. As
the Web evolved to acquire Cascaded Style Sheets (CSS), ideas
from AsTeR  were used to define Aural CSS as an appendix to CSS1
in 1995. Emacspeak proved an ideal platform to prototype the
ideas within Aural CSS @@MDash  first within the Emacs/W3
browser. Around this time, Emacs itself evolved to support
multiple fonts and @emph{font-locking}  to implement syntax coloring
for various types of content. Emacspeak applied the ideas of
audio formatting to create the auditory analog of @emph{font-lock}  @@MDash
Emacspeak calls this @emph{voice locking}.

Voice locking in Emacspeak continues to be a unique feature among
systems that provide auditory feedback. Later in 1997,
Emacspeak's implementation was overhauled to use Aural CSS for
all aspects of voice-locking, rather than just for Web content.

@node Auditory Icons
@section Auditory Icons

Emacspeak augments spoken feedback with short auditory icons that
vastly speed up interaction. Combined with audio formatting, the
resulting experience is analogous to moving from a monochrome
character-cell display to a high-quality color display @@MDash  the
overall user experience is rich in comparison. This enabled
Emacspeak to explore innovative means of auditory communication
@@MDash  as an example,  see my Assets-98 paper entitled
@emph{Conversational Gestures For The Audio Desktop} that details how
one can play Tetris on the Emacspeak desktop.

@node Summary
@section Summary

The lessons learnt from developing Emacspeak are many @@MDash    here
are a few highlights:

@itemize
@item
A model for browsing tabular data @@MDash  see relevant chapter in
my book @emph{Auditory User Interfaces}
@item
Audio formatting and Aural CSS
@item
Auditory icons for efficient feedback.
@item
Web widgets for rapid task completion on the Web.
@end itemize

And many more than will fit this margin.


