@c $Id$
@node Installation
@chapter Installation Instructions

This chapter gives brief and detailed installation instructions
for configuring, installing and starting Emacspeak.

@menu
* Obtaining Emacspeak::         Obtaining Emacspeak.
* Quick Installation::          Default installation  and startup.
* Building And Testing The Speech Server::
@end menu

@node Obtaining Emacspeak
@section Obtaining Emacspeak

Emacspeak is available on the Internet at:
@table @b
@item WWW
@url{http://emacspeak.sourceforge.net}
@item Git Repository
@url{https://github.com/tvraman/emacspeak}
@item Mail List
@email{emacspeak@@emacspeak.net}
@item List Request
@email{emacspeak-request@@emacspeak.net}
@end table

The Emacspeak mailing list is maintained by Greg E. Priest-Dorman.  If
you are using Emacspeak, you should join the list by sending mail to
the request address, @url{mailto:emacspeak-request@@emacspeak.net}.

@node Quick Installation
@section Quick Installation

Here are the quick installation instructions.  See the next section
for detailed installation instructions.

Packages for Linux distributions such as Debian typically become
available on the WWW a few weeks or months after a new version is
released.  The instructions below are for building and installing
Emacspeak from the source distribution.  If you install one of the
prepackaged distributions, use the install instructions that come
with that package.

@itemize @bullet
@item
Obtain the source code @MDash{} either by downloading the tar.bz2 file
for the latest release @MDash{} or by cloning the git repository.

@example
git clone https://github.com/tvraman/emacspeak
@end example

@item
Change to the @code{emacspeak} directory.

@item
Type @samp{make config} to configure the sources.

@item
Type @samp{make} to compile the files.

@item
Next, decide which text-to-speech engine you will be using, and
proceed to install that engine.  Your choices are:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Open Source ESpeak on Linux.  Install the ESpeak packages for your
system, then compile the Emacspeak ESpeak server by doing:

@example
cd servers/native-espeak
make
@end example

@item
ViaVoice Outloud (AKA Eloquent).  You need to purchase this engine
from the voxin site --- note that the Vocalizer voices available from
that site are not supported.  That purchase will give you
install-ready packages for installing the speech engine as well as
Emacspeak.  See @url{https://voxin.oralux.net/rss.xml} for the latest
packages, and @url{https://voxin.oralux.net} for the main Voxin Web
site.

@item
On the Mac, you can use the builtin Mac TTS engine @MDash{} emacspeak
comes with a speech server for that TTS engine written in @code{swift}.
@end itemize

@item
Having installed and configured the TTS engine of your choice, and
having built the associated speech server, set Emacspeak up to use that
engine by setting environment variable @env{DTK_PROGRAM}.  If using @command{bash}
as your shell, add the line

@example
export DTK_PROGRAM=@var{<engine-name>}
@end example

to your @code{.bash_profile}.

As an example, to use ESpeak, add

@example
export DTK_PROGRAM=espeak
@end example

@item
Run it by adding the line

@lisp
(load-file "@var{<emacspeak-dir>}/lisp/emacspeak-setup.el")
@end lisp

to the top of your .emacs file.

In the above, @var{<emacspeak-dir>} refers to the directory where you
unpacked the sources.
@end itemize

See the next section for details on building and testing the speech
server.

@node Building And Testing The Speech Server
@section Building And Testing The Speech Server
@subsection Speech Servers

Speech servers are located in the @code{emacspeak/servers} directory.

@itemize @bullet
@item
ESpeak: @code{servers/espeak}.  This is a TCL script that uses a library built
in @code{servers/native-espeak/}.

@item
Dectalk: @code{servers/dtk-exp}.  This is a TCL script that does not
depend on any native code.
@item Software Dectalk: @code{servers/dtk-soft} See @url{https://github.com/tvraman/emacspeak/blob/master/servers/software-dtk/Readme.org}.
@item
Outloud: @code{servers/outloud} 
  This is a TCL script that uses the library built in
@code{servers/linux-outloud}.  Note that a checkout from GitHub gives
you a prebuilt library @MDash{} however you will need to purchase the
TTS engine from @url{http://voxin.oralux.net}.

@item
Mac: @code{servers/mac-swiftmac}.  This is a server implemented in
@code{swift}; the older Python implementation is being deprecated but
still available as Python script @code{servers/mac}.  The server binds to the native
Mac TTS.
@end itemize

@subsubsection Testing The Selected Server.

Once you have picked the TTS engine to use, run the selected server
script at a shell prompt, e.g. for the @code{espeak} engine, execute:

@example
./servers/espeak
@end example

This will result in a TCL prompt.  Here, you can test the TTS engine
by typing

@example
q "this is a test."
d
@end example

You should hear the TTS engine speak the text.

Type @kbd{s} to stop speech.
You should see a TCL prompt when you execute it.

Quit this TCL session by typing @kbd{C-d} (an end-of-file character).
