@node Emacspeak Keyboard Commands 
@chapter Emacspeak Keyboard Commands.

@cindex Emacs Keyboard Commands 

This chapter details all of the keymaps used by Emacspeak. It is meant
as a complete reference; for basic usage, see @xref{Basic Usage}.

Emacspeak uses the following keymaps, each of which are invoked by a
specific prefix key. Subsequent sections of this chapter enumerate the
keys bound in each of these keymaps.

@table @kbd
@item C-e 
The main Emacspeak keymap.
@item C-e d
The text-to-speech keymap.
@item C-;
The Emacspeak hyper keymap.
@item C-'
The emacspeak super keymap.
@item C-,
The Emacspeak alt keymap.
@item C-.
The Emacspeak super keymap.
@item C-e x
The emacspeak  @kbd{x} keymap.
@item C-e C-x
The Emacspeak @kbd{C-x} keymap.
@end table 

Primary Emacspeak commands start with @kbd{C-e}. Following @kbd{C-e}
with @kbd{d} invokes commands that control the text-to-speech engine.
Note that silencing speech is an exception to this rule @MDash{} Speech
silence commands are placed directly on the primary emacspeak-keymap
(@kbd{C-e s} and @kbd{C-e .}).

In addition, Emacspeak introduces five additional keymaps for binding
its extensive set of facilities to convenient keystrokes.

When running  under a windowing system, Emacs automatically receives
keys @kbd{C-;}, @kbd{C-'}, @kbd{C-,} and @kbd{C-.}.
When running on the Linux console, these keys become available after
loading the custom Linux keymap found  in 
@code{emacspeak/tvr/console-keymaps} after  checking out the emacspeak
repository from @code{https://github.com/tvraman/emacspeak}.

Emacspeak defines personal keymaps accessible via @kbd{C-e x} and
@kbd{C-e C-x}. For now, emacspeak does not bind any commands in keymap
@kbd{C-e C-x} @MDash{} this keymap is left for end-user personalization.

Note  that the information presented in the following subsections
can also be viewed via Emacs' built-in Help system; e.g., Press @kbd{C-;
C-h} to  get a @code{*Help*} buffer    that displays all keys bound in
@code{emacspeak-hyper-keymap}.


@menu
* Emacspeak Keybindings from emacspeak-keymap::
* Emacspeak Keybindings from emacspeak-dtk-submap::
* Emacspeak Keybindings from emacspeak-hyper-keymap::
* Emacspeak Keybindings from emacspeak-super-keymap::
* Emacspeak Keybindings from emacspeak-alt-keymap::
* Emacspeak Keybindings from emacspeak-personal-keymap::
* Emacspeak Keybindings from emacspeak-personal-ctlx-keymap::
@end menu 


@include keys.texi
