@c $Id$
@node Emacspeak Customizations
@chapter Emacspeak Customizations 

This chapter is generated automatically from the source-level documentation.
Any errors or corrections should be made to the source-level
documentation.
This chapter documents a total of 645 user customizable
  options.

@menu
* cd-tool Options::             
* dtk-speak Options::           
* emacspeak-add-log Options::   
* emacspeak-advice Options::    
* emacspeak-alsaplayer Options::  
* emacspeak-amphetadesk Options::  
* emacspeak-atom Options::      
* emacspeak-aumix Options::     
* emacspeak-bbdb Options::      
* emacspeak-calendar Options::  
* emacspeak-compile Options::   
* emacspeak-custom Options::    
* emacspeak-daisy Options::     
* emacspeak-dired Options::     
* emacspeak-dismal Options::    
* emacspeak-ediff Options::     
* emacspeak-entertain Options::  
* emacspeak-eperiodic Options::  
* emacspeak-erc Options::       
* emacspeak-eshell Options::    
* emacspeak-eterm Options::     
* emacspeak-eudc Options::      
* emacspeak-forms Options::     
* emacspeak-gnus Options::      
* emacspeak-hide Options::      
* emacspeak-ido Options::       
* emacspeak-imcom Options::     
* emacspeak-imenu Options::     
* emacspeak-info Options::      
* emacspeak-ispell Options::    
* emacspeak-jabber Options::    
* emacspeak-keymap Options::    
* emacspeak-loaddefs Options::  
* emacspeak-m-player Options::  
* emacspeak-madplay Options::   
* emacspeak-make-mode Options::  
* emacspeak-message Options::   
* emacspeak-muse Options::      
* emacspeak-ocr Options::       
* emacspeak-outline Options::   
* emacspeak-pcl-cvs Options::   
* emacspeak-personality Options::  
* emacspeak-pronounce Options::  
* emacspeak-re-builder Options::  
* emacspeak-realaudio Options::  
* emacspeak-remote Options::    
* emacspeak-replace Options::   
* emacspeak-rpm-spec Options::  
* emacspeak-rss Options::       
* emacspeak-sigbegone Options::  
* emacspeak-sounds Options::    
* emacspeak-speak Options::     
* emacspeak-speedbar Options::  
* emacspeak-table-ui Options::  
* emacspeak-tnt Options::       
* emacspeak-url-template Options::  
* emacspeak-vm Options::        
* emacspeak-w3 Options::        
* emacspeak-w3m Options::       
* emacspeak-websearch Options::  
* emacspeak-wizards Options::   
* emacspeak-xml-shell Options::  
* emacspeak-xslt Options::      
* emacspeak Options::           
* voice-setup Options::         
@end menu

@node cd-tool Options
@section cd-tool Options

Commentary:
Provide an emacs front-end to cdtool.
cdtool can be obtained as an rpm
check using rpmfind
or from its home site at
  sunsite.unc.edu /pub/Linux/apps/sound/cdrom/cli
This module also provides the ability to play or save
clips from a CD if you have cdda2wav installed.
cdda2wav is a cd to wav convertor.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  cd-tool.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} cd-tool-start-command
*Name of cdstart command; most likely either "cdstart" or "cdplay".
@end defvar

@node dtk-speak Options
@section dtk-speak Options

Commentary:
Defines the TTS interface.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  dtk-speak.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} dtk-cleanup-patterns
List of repeating patterns to clean up.
You can use  command  `dtk-add-cleanup-pattern'
 bound to C-e d a  to add more patterns.
Specify patterns that people use to decorate their ASCII files, and cause
untold pain to the speech synthesizer.

If more than 3 consecutive occurrences
of a specified pattern is found, the TTS engine replaces it
with a repeat count. 
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-resume-should-toggle
*T means `dtk-resume' acts as a toggle.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-speak-nonprinting-chars
*Option that specifies handling of non-printing chars.
Non nil value means non printing characters  should be
spoken as their octal value.
Set this to t to avoid a dectalk bug that makes the speech box die if
it seems some accented characters in certain contexts.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-speech-rate-base
*Value of lowest tolerable speech rate.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-speech-rate-step
*Value of speech rate increment.
This determines step size used when setting speech rate via command
`dtk-set-predefined-speech-rate'.  Formula used is
dtk-speech-rate-base  +  dtk-speech-rate-step*level.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-startup-hook
List of hooks to be run after starting up the speech server.
Set things like speech rate, punctuation mode etc in this
hook.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-stop-immediately-while-typing
*Set it to nil if you dont want speech to flush as you
type.  You can use command
`dtk-toggle-stop-immediately-while-typing' bound to
C-e d I to toggle this setting.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} dtk-use-tones
Allow tones to be turned off.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} tts-strip-octals
Set to T to strip all octal chars before speaking.
Particularly useful for web browsing.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-add-log Options
@section emacspeak-add-log Options

Commentary:
speech-enables change-log-mode 
Code:

(require 'cl)
(declaim  (optimize  (safety 0) (speed 3)))
(require 'custom)
(require 'browse-url)
(require 'emacspeak-preamble)
(eval-when-compile
  (condition-case nil
      (require 'emacspeak-w3)
    (error nil)))

(defgroup emacspeak-add-log nil
  "Customize Emacspeak for change-log-mode and friends."
  :group 'emacspeak)

(voice-setup-add-map
 '(
   (change-log-acknowledgement voice-smoothen)
   (change-log-conditionals voice-animate)
   (change-log-email voice-womanize-1)
   (change-log-function voice-bolden-extra)
   (change-log-file voice-bolden)
   (change-log-email voice-womanize-1)
   (change-log-list voice-lighten)
   (change-log-name voice-lighten-extra)
   ))

(provide 'emacspeak-add-log)

local variables:
folded-file: t
byte-compile-dynamic: t

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-add-log.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-acknowledgement-voice
Personality used for change-log-acknowledgement
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-conditionals-voice
Personality used for change-log-conditionals
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-email-voice
Personality used for change-log-email
This personality uses  voice-womanize-1 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-womanize-1-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-file-voice
Personality used for change-log-file
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-function-voice
Personality used for change-log-function
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-list-voice
Personality used for change-log-list
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-change-log-name-voice
Personality used for change-log-name
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-advice Options
@section emacspeak-advice Options

Commentary:
This module defines the advice forms for making the core of Emacs speak
Advice forms that are specific to Emacs subsystems do not belong here!
I violate this at present by advicing completion comint and
shell here.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-advice.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-backward-delete-char-speak-current-char
*T means `backward-delete-char' speaks char that becomes
current after deletion.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-delete-char-speak-deleted-char
*T means `delete-char' speaks char that was deleted.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-cue-errors
Specifies if error messages are cued.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-messages-should-pause-ongoing-speech
* Option to make messages pause speech.
If t then all messages will pause ongoing speech if any
before the message is spoken.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-alsaplayer Options
@section emacspeak-alsaplayer Options

Commentary:
Defines a simple derived mode for interacting with
alsaplayer.
alsaplayer navigation commands  work via single keystrokes.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-alsaplayer.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-alsaplayer-auditory-feedback
Turn this on if you want spoken feedback and auditory icons from alsaplayer.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-alsaplayer-media-directory
Directory to look for media files.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-alsaplayer-program
Alsaplayer executable.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-amphetadesk Options
@section emacspeak-amphetadesk Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-amphetadesk.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-amphetadesk-port
Port where AmphetaDesk listens.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-amphetadesk-program
Script that launches amphetadesk.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-amphetadesk-uri
URI for Amphetadesk home.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-atom Options
@section emacspeak-atom Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-atom.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-atom-feeds
Table of ATOM feeds.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-atom-unescape-html
Fix malformed  XML that results from sites attempting to
unescape HTML tags.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-aumix Options
@section emacspeak-aumix Options

Commentary:
Provides an AUI to setting up the auditory display via AUMIX
This module is presently Linux specific

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-aumix.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-alsactl-program
ALSA sound controller used to restore settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-aumix-full-duplex-p
*Set to T if the sound card is truly full duplex.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-aumix-midi-available-p
*Set to T if   midi is available.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-aumix-multichannel-capable-p
*Set to T if the sound card is capable of mixing multiple channels of audio.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-aumix-reset-options
*Option to pass to aumix for resetting to default values.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-aumix-settings-file
*Name of file containing personal aumix settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-bbdb Options
@section emacspeak-bbdb Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-bbdb.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bbdb-company-voice
Personality used for bbdb-company
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bbdb-field-name-voice
Personality used for bbdb-field-name
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bbdb-field-value-voice
Personality used for bbdb-field-value
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bbdb-name-voice
Personality used for bbdb-name
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-calendar Options
@section emacspeak-calendar Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-calendar.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-calendar-mark-personality
Personality to use when showing marked calendar entries.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-compile Options
@section emacspeak-compile Options

Commentary:
This module makes compiling code from inside Emacs speech friendly.
It is an example of how a little amount of code can make Emacspeak even better.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-compile.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-column-number-voice
Personality used for compilation-column-number
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-error-voice
Personality used for compilation-error
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-info-voice
Personality used for compilation-info
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-line-number-voice
Personality used for compilation-line-number
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-compilation-warning-voice
Personality used for compilation-warning
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-custom Options
@section emacspeak-custom Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-custom.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-group-regexp
Pattern identifying start of custom group.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-toolbar-regexp
Pattern that identifies toolbar section.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-daisy Options
@section emacspeak-daisy Options

Commentary:
Daisy Digital Talking Book Reader

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-daisy.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-daisy-books-directory
Customize this to the root of where books are organized.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-daisy-completion-extensions-to-ignore
These file name extensions are ignored when locating the
navigation file for a book. Include all extensions except `.ncx'
  for optimal performance.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-dired Options
@section emacspeak-dired Options

Commentary:
This module speech enables dired.
It reduces the amount of speech you hear:
Typically you hear the file names as you move through the dired buffer
Voicification is used to indicate directories, marked files etc.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-dired.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-file-cmd-options
Options passed to Unix builtin `file' command.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-dismal Options
@section emacspeak-dismal Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-dismal.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dismal-value-personality
Personality used for speaking cell values in summaries.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ediff Options
@section emacspeak-ediff Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-ediff.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-A-personality
Personality used to voiceify difference chunk A
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-B-personality
Personality used to voiceify difference chunk B
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-always-autorefine-diffs
Says if emacspeak should try computing fine differences each time.
Set this to nil if things get too slow.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-fine-A-personality
Personality used to voiceify difference chunk A
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ediff-fine-B-personality
Personality used to voiceify difference chunk B
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-entertain Options
@section emacspeak-entertain Options

Commentary:
Auditory interface to misc games

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-entertain.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mpuz-solved-personality
Personality used for mpuz-solved-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mpuz-trivial-personality
Personality used for mpuz-trivial-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mpuz-unsolved-personality
Personality used for mpuz-unsolved-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-eperiodic Options
@section emacspeak-eperiodic Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-eperiodic.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-media-location
Location of streaming media describing elements.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-erc Options
@section emacspeak-erc Options

Commentary:
erc.el is a modern Emacs client for IRC including color
and font locking support. 
erc.el - an Emacs IRC client (by Alexander L. Belikoff)
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~berez/irc/erc.el

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-erc.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-ignore-notices
Set to T if you dont want to see notification  messages from the
server.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-my-nick
My IRC nick.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-speak-all-participants
Speak all things said if t.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-eshell Options
@section emacspeak-eshell Options

Commentary:
EShell is a shell implemented entirely in Emacs Lisp.
It is part of emacs 21 --and can also be used under
Emacs 20.
This module speech-enables EShell

Play an auditory icon as you display the prompt 
(defun emacspeak-eshell-prompt-function ()
  "Play auditory icon for prompt."
  (declare (special eshell-last-command-status))
  (cond
   ((= 0 eshell-last-command-status)
    (emacspeak-serve-auditory-icon 'item))
   (t (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'warn-user))))

(add-hook 'eshell-after-prompt-hook
          'emacspeak-eshell-prompt-function)

Speak command output 
(add-hook 'eshell-post-command-hook
          (function 
           (lambda nil
             (declare (special eshell-last-input-end
                               eshell-last-output-end
                               eshell-last-output-start))
             (emacspeak-speak-region eshell-last-input-end
                                     eshell-last-output-end)))
          t)

(defadvice pcomplete-list (after emacspeak pre act )
  "Provide auditory feedback."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'help)
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'help)))

(defadvice pcomplete (around emacspeak pre act)
  "Say what you completed."
  (cond
   ((interactive-p)
    (emacspeak-kill-buffer-carefully "*Completions*")
    (let ((prior (point ))
          (emacspeak-speak-messages nil)m)
      ad-do-it
      (when (> (point) prior)
        (tts-with-punctuations 'all
                               (dtk-speak
                                (buffer-substring prior
                                                  (point)))))
      (let ((completions-buffer (get-buffer "*Completions*")))
        (when (and completions-buffer
                   (window-live-p (get-buffer-window completions-buffer )))
          (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'help)
          (switch-to-buffer completions-buffer)))))
   (t ad-do-it))
  ad-return-value)

(defadvice pcomplete-show-completions (around emacspeak pre act comp)
  (let ((emacspeak-speak-messages nil))
    ad-do-it))

(defadvice eshell (after emacspeak pre act )
  "Announce switching to shell mode.
Provide an auditory icon if possible."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'select-object )
    (emacspeak-setup-programming-mode)
    (emacspeak-dtk-sync)
    (emacspeak-speak-line)))

(loop for f in 
      '(eshell-next-input eshell-previous-input
                          eshell-next-matching-input
                          eshell-previous-matching-input
                          eshell-next-matching-input-from-input
                          eshell-previous-matching-input-from-input)
      do
      (eval
       (`
        (defadvice (, f) (after  emacspeak pre act comp)
          "Speak selected command."
          (when (interactive-p)
            (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'select-object)
            (save-excursion
              (beginning-of-line)
              (eshell-skip-prompt)
              (emacspeak-speak-line 1)))))))

(defgroup emacspeak-eshell nil
  "EShell on the Emacspeak Audio Desktop."
  :group 'emacspeak
  :group 'eshell
  :prefix "emacspeak-eshell-")

(defcustom emacspeak-eshell-ls-use-personalities t
  "Indicates if ls in eshell uses different voice
personalities."
  :type 'boolean
  :group 'emacspeak-eshell)

(voice-setup-add-map
 '(
   (eshell-ls-archive voice-lighten-extra)
   (eshell-ls-archive-face voice-lighten-extra)
   (eshell-ls-backup voice-monotone-medium)
   (eshell-ls-backup-face voice-monotone-medium)
   (eshell-ls-clutter voice-smoothen-extra)
   (eshell-ls-clutter-face voice-smoothen-extra)
   (eshell-ls-directory voice-bolden)
   (eshell-ls-directory-face voice-bolden)
   (eshell-ls-executable voice-animate-extra)
   (eshell-ls-executable-face voice-animate-extra)
   (eshell-ls-missing voice-brighten)
   (eshell-ls-missing-face voice-brighten)
   (eshell-ls-product voice-lighten-medium)
   (eshell-ls-product-face voice-lighten-medium)
   (eshell-ls-readonly voice-monotone)
   (eshell-ls-readonly-face voice-monotone)
   (eshell-ls-special voice-lighten-extra)
   (eshell-ls-special-face voice-lighten-extra)
   (eshell-ls-symlink voice-smoothen)
   (eshell-ls-symlink-face voice-smoothen)
   (eshell-ls-unreadable voice-monotone-medium)
   (eshell-ls-unreadable-face voice-monotone-medium)
   (eshell-prompt voice-animate)
   (eshell-prompt-face voice-animate)
   ))

(loop for f in 
      '(eshell-next-prompt eshell-previous-prompt
                           eshell-forward-matching-input  eshell-backward-matching-input)
      do
      (eval
       (`
        (defadvice (, f) (after  emacspeak pre act comp)
          "Speak selected command."
          (when (interactive-p)
            (let ((emacspeak-speak-messages nil))
              (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'select-object)
              (emacspeak-speak-line 1)))))))

(loop for f in 
      '(eshell-insert-buffer-name
        eshell-insert-process
        eshell-insert-envvar) 
      do
      (eval 
       (`
        (defadvice (, f) (after emacspeak pre act comp)
          "Speak output."
          (when (interactive-p)
            (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'select-object)
            (emacspeak-speak-line))))))

(defadvice eshell-insert-process (after emacspeak pre
                                        act comp)
  "Speak output."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'select-object)
    (emacspeak-speak-line)))
(defadvice eshell-delchar-or-maybe-eof (around emacspeak pre act)
  "Speak character you're deleting."
  (cond
   ((interactive-p )
    (cond
     ((= (point) (point-max))
      (message "Sending EOF to comint process"))
     (t (dtk-tone 500 30 'force)
        (and emacspeak-delete-char-speak-deleted-char
             (emacspeak-speak-char t))))
    ad-do-it)
   (t ad-do-it))
  ad-return-value)

(defadvice eshell-delete-backward-char (around emacspeak pre act)
  "Speak character you're deleting."
  (cond
   ((interactive-p )
    (dtk-tone 500 30 'force)
    (emacspeak-speak-this-char (preceding-char ))
    ad-do-it)
   (t ad-do-it))
  ad-return-value)

(defadvice eshell-show-output (after emacspeak pre act comp)
  "Speak output."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (let ((emacspeak-show-point t)
          (voice-lock-mode t))
      (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'large-movement)
      (emacspeak-speak-region (point) (mark)))))
(defadvice eshell-mark-output (after emacspeak pre act comp)
  "Speak output."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (let ((emacspeak-show-point t)
          (voice-lock-mode t))
      (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'mark-object)
      (emacspeak-speak-line))))
(defadvice eshell-kill-output (after emacspeak pre act comp)
  "Produce auditory feedback."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'delete-object)
    (message "Flushed output")))

(defadvice eshell-kill-input (before emacspeak pre act )
  "Provide spoken feedback."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'delete-object )
    (emacspeak-speak-line)))

(defadvice eshell-toggle (after emacspeak pre act comp)
  "Provide spoken context feedback."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (cond
     ((eq major-mode 'eshell-mode)
      (emacspeak-setup-programming-mode)
      (emacspeak-speak-line))
     (t (emacspeak-speak-mode-line)))
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'select-object)))
(defadvice eshell-toggle-cd (after emacspeak pre act comp)
  "Provide spoken context feedback."
  (when (interactive-p)
    (cond
     ((eq major-mode 'eshell-mode)
      (emacspeak-speak-line))
     (t (emacspeak-speak-mode-line)))
    (emacspeak-auditory-icon 'select-object)))

(provide 'emacspeak-eshell)

local variables:
folded-file: t
byte-compile-dynamic: t

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-eshell.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-use-personalities
Indicates if ls in eshell uses different voice
personalities.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-eterm Options
@section emacspeak-eterm Options

Commentary:
This module makes eterm talk.
Eterm is the new terminal emulator for Emacs.
Use of emacspeak with eterm really needs an info page.
At present, the only documentation is the source level documentation.
This module uses Control-t as an additional prefix key to allow the user
To move around the terminal and have different parts spoken. 

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-eterm.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-bold-personality
Personality to indicate terminal bold.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-default-personality
Default personality for terminal.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-highlight-personality
Personality to show terminal highlighting.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-remote-hosts-cache
File where list of known remote hosts is cached
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eterm-underline-personality
Personality to indicate terminal underlining.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-eudc Options
@section emacspeak-eudc Options

Commentary:
EUDC --Emacs Universal Directory Client 
provides a unified interface to directory servers
e.g. ldap servers
this module speech enables eudc 

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-eudc.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eudc-attribute-value-personality
Personality t use for voiceifying attribute values. 
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-forms Options
@section emacspeak-forms Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-forms.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-forms-ro-voice
Personality for read-only fields. 
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-forms-rw-voice
Personality for read-write fields. 
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-gnus Options
@section emacspeak-gnus Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-gnus.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-punctuation-mode
Pronunciation mode to use for gnus buffers.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-hide Options
@section emacspeak-hide Options

Commentary:

Flexible hide and show for emacspeak.
This module allows one to easily hide or expose
blocks of lines starting with a common prefix.
It is motivated by the need to flexibly hide quoted text in email
but is designed to be more general.
the prefix parsing is inspired by filladapt.el

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-hide.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hidden-header-line-personality
Personality used to identify header lines of blocks.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ido Options
@section emacspeak-ido Options

Commentary:
speech-enable ido.el
This is an interesting task since most of the value-add
provided by package ido.el  is visual feedback.
Speech UI Challenge: What  is the most efficient means of
conveying a dynamically updating set of choices?
current strategy is to walk the list using c-s and c-r as
provided by ido
Set number matches shown to 3 using Custom so you dont hear
the entire list.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-ido.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-first-match-voice
Personality used for ido-first-match
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-incomplete-regexp-voice
Personality used for ido-incomplete-regexp
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-indicator-voice
Personality used for ido-indicator
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-only-match-voice
Personality used for ido-only-match
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ido-subdir-voice
Personality used for ido-subdir
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-imcom Options
@section emacspeak-imcom Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-imcom.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-imcom-client
Name of IMCom command-line client.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-imcom-default-jabber-server
Name of jabber server that is used by default.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-imcom-hooks
Start up hooks run after IMCom process is started.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-imcom-personal-directory
Directory where IMCom stores personalization files.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-imenu Options
@section emacspeak-imenu Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-imenu.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-imenu-autospeak
Speak contents of sections automatically if set.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-info Options
@section emacspeak-info Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-info.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-select-node-speak-chunk
*Specifies how much of the selected node gets spoken.
Possible values are:
screenfull  -- speak the displayed screen
node -- speak the entire node.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ispell Options
@section emacspeak-ispell Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-ispell.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ispell-max-choices
Emacspeak will not speak the choices if there are more than this
many available corrections.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-jabber Options
@section emacspeak-jabber Options

Commentary:
emacs-jabber.el implements a  jabber client for emacs
emacs-jabber is hosted at sourceforge.
I use emacs-jabber with my gmail.com account

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-jabber.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-activity-personality
Personality used for jabber-activity-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-error-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-prompt-foreign-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-prompt-foreign
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-prompt-local-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-prompt-local
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-prompt-system-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-prompt-system
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-text-foreign-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-text-foreign
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-chat-text-local-voice
Personality used for jabber-chat-text-local
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-rare-time-personality
Personality used for jabber-rare-time-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-away-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-away
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-chatty-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-chatty
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-dnd-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-dnd
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-error-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-error
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-offline-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-offline
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-online-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-online
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-roster-user-xa-voice
Personality used for jabber-roster-user-xa
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-speak-presence-alerts
Set to T if you want to hear presence alerts.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-title-large-voice
Personality used for jabber-title-large
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-title-medium-voice
Personality used for jabber-title-medium
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-jabber-title-small-voice
Personality used for jabber-title-small
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-keymap Options
@section emacspeak-keymap Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-keymap.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-alt-keys
*Specifies alt key bindings for the audio desktop.
You can turn the `Pause' key  on your Linux PC keyboard into a `alt' key
on Linux by having it emit the sequence `C-x@@a'.

Bindings specified here are available on prefix key `alt'
(not to be confused with alt==meta)
for example, if you bind 
`s' to command emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart 
then that command will be available on key `ALT  s'

The value of this variable is an association list. The car
of each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies
an interactive command that the key sequence executes. To
enter a key with a modifier, type C-q followed by the
desired modified keystroke. For example, to enter C-s
(Control s) as the key to be bound, type C-q C-s in the key
field in the customization buffer.  You can use the notation
[f1], [f2], etc., to specify function keys. 
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-hyper-keys
*Specifies hyper key bindings for the audio desktop.
Emacs can use the `hyper' key as a modifier key.
You can turn the `windows' keys on your Linux PC keyboard into a `hyper' key
on Linux by having it emit the sequence `C-x@@h'.

Bindings specified here are available on prefix key  `hyper'
for example, if you bind 
`b' to command `bbdb '
then that command will be available on key `hyper b'.

The value of this variable is an association list. The car
of each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies
an interactive command that the key sequence executes. To
enter a key with a modifier, type C-q followed by the
desired modified keystroke. For example, to enter C-s
(Control s) as the key to be bound, type C-q C-s in the key
field in the customization buffer.  You can use the notation
[f1], [f2], etc., to specify function keys. 
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personal-keys
*Specifies personal key bindings for the audio desktop.
Bindings specified here are available on prefix key C-e x
for example, if you bind 
`s' to command emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart 
then that command will be available on key C-e x s

The value of this variable is an association list. The car
of each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies
an interactive command that the key sequence executes. To
enter a key with a modifier, type C-q followed by the
desired modified keystroke. For example, to enter C-s
(Control s) as the key to be bound, type C-q C-s in the key
field in the customization buffer.  You can use the notation
[f1], [f2], etc., to specify function keys. 
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-super-keys
*Specifies super key bindings for the audio desktop.
You can turn the right `windows menu' keys on your Linux PC keyboard into a `super' key
on Linux by having it emit the sequence `C-x@@s'.

Bindings specified here are available on prefix key `super'
for example, if you bind 
`s' to command emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart 
then that command will be available on key `super  s'

The value of this variable is an association list. The car
of each element specifies a key sequence. The cdr specifies
an interactive command that the key sequence executes. To
enter a key with a modifier, type C-q followed by the
desired modified keystroke. For example, to enter C-s
(Control s) as the key to be bound, type C-q C-s in the key
field in the customization buffer.  You can use the notation
[f1], [f2], etc., to specify function keys. 
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-loaddefs Options
@section emacspeak-loaddefs Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-loaddefs.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-play-program
Name of executable that plays sound files. 
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sounds-default-theme
Default theme for auditory icons. 
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-m-player Options
@section emacspeak-m-player Options

Commentary:
Defines a simple derived mode for interacting with mplayer.
mplayer  is a versatile media player capable of playing many
streaming formats  and is especially useful for playing windows
media (WMA) and streaming windows media (ASF) files.
mplayer is available  on the WWW:
RPM package
http://mirrors.sctpc.com/dominik/linux/pkgs/mplayer/i586/mplayer-0.90pre5-2.i586.rpm
You may need the  win32 codecs which can be downloaded from 
http://ftp.lug.udel.edu/MPlayer/releases/w32codec-0.60.tar.bz2
Mplayer FAQ at
http://www.mplayerhq.hu/DOCS/faq.html
Mplayer docs at 
http://www.mplayerhq.hu/DOCS/

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-m-player.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-m-player-options
Options passed to mplayer.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-m-player-program
Media player program.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-madplay Options
@section emacspeak-madplay Options

Commentary:
Defines a simple derived mode for interacting with
madplay.
madplay navigation commands  work via single keystrokes.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-madplay.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-madplay-media-directory
Directory to look for media files.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-madplay-program
Script to invoke madplay.
Emacspeak comes with a sample amadplay script in etc/amadplay
  that 
sets up madplay to pipe output to alsa.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-make-mode Options
@section emacspeak-make-mode Options

Commentary:
This module speech enables make-mode

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-make-mode.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-makepp-perl-voice
Personality used for makefile-makepp-perl
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-shell-voice
Personality used for makefile-shell
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-space-voice
Personality used for makefile-space
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-makefile-targets-voice
Personality used for makefile-targets
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-message Options
@section emacspeak-message Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-message.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-punctuation-mode
Pronunciation mode to use for message buffers.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-muse Options
@section emacspeak-muse Options

Commentary:
Speech enable Muse

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-muse.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-bad-link-personality
Personality used for muse-bad-link-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-emphasis-1-voice
Personality used for muse-emphasis-1
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-emphasis-2-voice
Personality used for muse-emphasis-2
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-emphasis-3-voice
Personality used for muse-emphasis-3
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-1-voice
Personality used for muse-header-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-2-voice
Personality used for muse-header-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-3-voice
Personality used for muse-header-3
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-4-voice
Personality used for muse-header-4
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-header-5-voice
Personality used for muse-header-5
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-link-personality
Personality used for muse-link-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-muse-verbatim-personality
Personality used for muse-verbatim-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-ocr Options
@section emacspeak-ocr Options

Commentary:
This module defines Emacspeak front-end to OCR.
This module assumes that sane is installed and working
for image acquisition,
and that there is an OCR engine that can take acquired
images and produce text.
Prerequisites:
Sane installed and working.
scanimage to generate tiff files from scanner.
tiffcp to compress the tiff file.
working ocr executable 
by default this module assumes that the OCR executable
is named "ocr"

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-ocr.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-compress-image
Command used to compress the scanned tiff file.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-compress-image-options
Options used for compressing tiff image.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-compress-photo-options
Options used when created JPEG from  scanned photographs.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-engine
OCR engine to process acquired image.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-engine-options
Command line options to pass to OCR engine.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-image-extension
Filename extension used for acquired image.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-jpeg-metadata-writer
Program to add metadata to JPEG files.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-keep-uncompressed-image
If set to T, uncompressed image is not removed.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-photo-compress
Program to create JPEG compressed images.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-scan-image
Name of image acquisition program.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-scan-image-options
Command line options to pass to image acquisition program.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-scan-photo-options
Options  used when scanning in photographs.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ocr-working-directory
Directory where images and OCR results
will be placed.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-outline Options
@section emacspeak-outline Options

Commentary:
Provide additional advice to outline-mode

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-outline.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-dont-query-before-speaking
*Option to control prompts when speaking  outline
sections.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-pcl-cvs Options
@section emacspeak-pcl-cvs Options

Commentary:
Speech-enabled CVS access via package pcl-cvs.el

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-pcl-cvs.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-filename-personality
Personality used for cvs-filename-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-handled-personality
Personality used for cvs-handled-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-header-personality
Personality used for cvs-header-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-marked-personality
Personality used for cvs-marked-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-msg-personality
Personality used for cvs-msg-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-need-action-personality
Personality used for cvs-need-action-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-personality Options
@section emacspeak-personality Options

Commentary:
This module defines a personality interface for implementing voice
lock via font lock.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-personality.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personality-show-unmapped-faces
If set, faces that dont have a corresponding personality are
displayed in the messages area.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personality-voiceify-faces
Determines how and if we voiceify faces.

None means that  faces are not mapped to voices.
Prepend means that the corresponding personality is prepended to the
existing personalities on the text.

Append means place corresponding personality at the end.
Simple means that voiceification is not cumulative --this is the default.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-personality-voiceify-overlays
Determines how and if we voiceify overlays.

None means that overlay faces are not mapped to voices.
Prepend means that the corresponding personality is prepended to the
existing personalities on the text under overlay.

Append means place corresponding personality at the end.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-pronounce Options
@section emacspeak-pronounce Options

Commentary:
This module implements user customizable pronunciation dictionaries
for emacspeak. Custom pronunciations can be defined per file, per
directory and/or per major mode. Emacspeak maintains a persistent
user dictionary upon request and loads these in new emacspeak
sessions. This module implements the user interface to the custom
dictionary as well as providing the internal API used by the rest
of emacspeak in using the dictionary.
Algorithm:

The persistent dictionary is a hash table where the hash keys are
filenames, directory names, or major-mode names. The hash values
are association lists defining the dictionary. Users of this module
can retrieve a dictionary made up of all applicable association
lists for a given file.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-pronounce.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-common-xml-namespace-uri-pronunciations
Pronunciations for well known namespace URIs.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-dictionaries-file
File that holds the persistent emacspeak pronunciation dictionaries.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-internet-smileys-pronunciations
Pronunciation dictionary used in all instant messenger and IRC chat
modes.
See http://oz.uc.edu/~solkode/smileys.html for a full list.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-load-pronunciations-on-startup
Says if user dictionaries loaded on  emacspeak startup.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-pronounce-pronunciation-personality
*Pronunciation personality.
This is the personality used when speaking  things that have a pronunciation
applied.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-re-builder Options
@section emacspeak-re-builder Options

Commentary: 
Speech-enable re-builder.
Will be used to advantage in efficiently setting up outline
regexp wizards



Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-re-builder.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-0-voice
Personality used for reb-match-0
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-0 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-0-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-1-voice
Personality used for reb-match-1
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-1 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-1-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-2-voice
Personality used for reb-match-2
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-2 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-2-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-reb-match-3-voice
Personality used for reb-match-3
This personality uses  voice-lock-overlay-3 whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lock-overlay-3-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-realaudio Options
@section emacspeak-realaudio Options

Commentary:
Assuming you have a correctly configured RealAudio
player, this package provides single click access to
starting and stopping a RealAudio stream from anywhere
on the Emacspeak desktop.  Before using this package,
make sure that your realaudio player works outside
Emacs. Then set variable Emacspeak-realaudio-player to
point to the program you use to play RealAudio streams.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-realaudio.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-realaudio-mp3-clipper
Executable used to clip MP3 files.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-realaudio-player
*Executable that plays realaudio
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-realaudio-player-options
*Options for realplayer.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-realaudio-reset-auditory-display
Set this to T if you want the audio settings reset after
a realaudio sream is done playing.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-realaudio-revert-to-auditory-icons
Set this to T if you want to switch back from using midi
icons once a realaudio stream is done playing.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-remote Options
@section emacspeak-remote Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-remote.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-remote-hooks
List of hook functions that are run after
emacspeak is set to run as a remote application.
Use this to add actions you typically perform after you enter remote
mode.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-remote-use-ssh
Set to T to use SSH remote servers.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-replace Options
@section emacspeak-replace Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-replace.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-replace-personality
Personality used in search and replace to indicate word
that is being replaced.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-rpm-spec Options
@section emacspeak-rpm-spec Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-rpm-spec.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-dir-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-dir-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-doc-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-doc-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-ghost-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-ghost-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-macro-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-macro-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-package-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-package-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rpm-spec-tag-personality
Personality used for rpm-spec-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-rss Options
@section emacspeak-rss Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-rss.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rss-feeds
Table of RSS feeds.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-rss-unescape-html
Fix malformed  XML that results from sites attempting to
unescape HTML tags.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-sigbegone Options
@section emacspeak-sigbegone Options

Commentary:
Speech-enables package sigbegone --voiceify sigs in email and news

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-sigbegone.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sigbegone-exorcized-personality
Personality used for sigbegone-exorcized-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-sounds Options
@section emacspeak-sounds Options

Commentary:
This module provides the interface for generating auditory icons in emacspeak.
Design goal:
1) Auditory icons should be used to provide additional feedback,
not as a gimmick.
2) The interface should be usable at all times without the icons:
e.g. when on a machine without a sound card.
3) General principle for when to use an icon:
Convey information about events taking place in parallel.
For instance, if making a selection automatically moves the current focus
to the next choice,
We speak the next choice, while indicating the fact that something was selected with a sound cue.
 This interface will assume the availability of a shell command "play"
that can take one or more sound files and play them.
This module will also provide a mapping between names in the elisp world and actual sound files.
Modules that wish to use auditory icons should use these names, instead of actual file names.
As of Emacspeak 13.0, this module defines a themes
architecture for  auditory icons.
Sound files corresponding to a given theme are found in
appropriate subdirectories of emacspeak-sounds-directory

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-sounds.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-auditory-icon-function
*Function that plays auditory icons.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-play-args
Set this to -i  if using the play program that ships on sunos/solaris.
Note: on sparc20's there is a sunos bug that causes the machine to crash if
you attempt to play sound when /dev/audio is busy.
It's imperative that you use the -i flag to play on
sparc20's.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-sounds-reset-snd-module-command
Command to reset sound module.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-speak Options
@section emacspeak-speak Options

Commentary:
This module defines the core speech services used by emacspeak.
It depends on the speech server interface modules
It protects other parts of emacspeak
from becoming dependent on the speech server modules

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-speak.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-audio-indentation
Option indicating if line indentation is cued.
If non-nil , then speaking a line indicates its indentation.
You can use  command `emacspeak-toggle-audio-indentation' bound
to C-e d i to toggle this
setting..
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-audio-indentation-method
*Current technique used to cue indentation.  Default is
`speak'.  You can specify `tone' for producing a beep
indicating the indentation.  Automatically becomes local in
any buffer where it is set.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-character-echo
If t, then emacspeak echoes characters  as you type.
You can
use C-e d k to toggle this
setting.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-comint-autospeak
Says if comint output is automatically spoken.
You can use
  `emacspeak-toggle-comint-autospeak` bound to
  C-e C-q to toggle this
setting.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-decoration-rule
*Regular expressions to match lines that are purely
decorative ascii.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-horizontal-rule
*Regular expression to match horizontal rules in ascii
text.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-line-echo
If t, then emacspeak echoes lines as you type.
You can use C-e d l to set this
option.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mail-alert
*Option to indicate cueing of new mail.
If t, emacspeak will alert you about newly arrived mail
with an auditory icon when
displaying the mode line.
You can use command
`emacspeak-toggle-mail-alert' bound to
C-e M-m to set this option.
If you have online access to a voicemail drop, you can have a
  voice-mail alert set up by specifying the location of the
  voice-mail drop via custom option
emacspeak-voicemail-spool-file.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mail-alert-interval
Interval in seconds between mail alerts for the same pending
  message.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-mail-spool-file
Mail spool file examined  to alert you about newly
arrived mail.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-show-point
 If T, then command  `emacspeak-speak-line' indicates position of point by an
aural highlight.  You can use
command `emacspeak-toggle-show-point' bound to
C-e C-d to toggle this setting.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-directory-settings
*Name of file that holds directory specific settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-embedded-url-pattern
Pattern to recognize embedded URLs.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-filter-persistent-store
File where emacspeak filters are persisted.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-line-column-filter
*List that specifies columns to be filtered.
The list when set holds pairs of start-col.end-col pairs
that specifies the columns that should not be spoken.
Each column contains a single character --this is inspired
by cut -c on UNIX.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-line-invert-filter
Non-nil means the sense of `filter' is inverted when filtering
columns in a line --see
command emacspeak-speak-line-set-column-filter.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-load-directory-settings-quietly
*User option that affects loading of directory specific settings.
If set to T,Emacspeak will not prompt before loading
directory specific settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-maximum-line-length
*Threshold for determining `long' lines.
Emacspeak will ask for confirmation before speaking lines
that are longer than this length.  This is to avoid accidentally
opening a binary file and torturing the speech synthesizer
with a long string of gibberish.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-message-again-should-copy-to-kill-ring
If set, asking for last message will copy it to the kill ring.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-messages
*Option indicating if messages are spoken.  If nil,
emacspeak will not speak messages as they are echoed to the
message area.  You can use command
`emacspeak-toggle-speak-messages' bound to
C-e q.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-paragraph-personality
*Personality used to mark start of paragraph.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-space-regexp
Pattern that matches white space.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-time-format-string
*Format string that specifies how the time should be spoken.
See the documentation for function
`format-time-string'
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-zoneinfo-directory
Directory containing timezone data.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-unspeakable-rule
*Pattern to match lines of special chars.
This is a regular expression that matches lines containing only
non-alphanumeric characters.  emacspeak will generate a tone
instead of speaking such lines when punctuation mode is set
to some.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voicemail-spool-file
Mail spool file examined  to alert you about newly
arrived voicemail.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-word-echo
If t, then emacspeak echoes words as you type.
You can use C-e d w to toggle this
option.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-speedbar Options
@section emacspeak-speedbar Options

Commentary:
This module advises speedbar.el for use with Emacs.  The
latest speedbar can be obtained from
ftp://ftp.ultranet.com/pub/zappo/ This module ensures
that speedbar works smoothly outside a windowing system
in addition to speech enabling all interactive
commands. Emacspeak also adds an Emacspeak environment
specific entry point to speedbar
--emacspeak-speedbar-goto-speedbar-- and binds this

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-speedbar.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-button-personality
personality used for speedbar buttons
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-default-personality
Default personality used in speedbar buffers
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-directory-personality
Speedbar personality for directory buttons
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-file-personality
Personality used for file buttons
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-highlight-personality
Personality used for for speedbar highlight.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-selected-personality
Personality used to indicate speedbar selection
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speedbar-tag-personality
Personality used for speedbar tags
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-table-ui Options
@section emacspeak-table-ui Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-table-ui.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-table-column-header-personality
personality for speaking column headers.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-table-row-header-personality
Personality for speaking row headers
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-tnt Options
@section emacspeak-tnt Options

Commentary:
Speech-enables TNT -- the Emacs AOL Instant Messenger
client 

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-tnt.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tnt-autospeak
True means messages in this chat session will be spoken
automatically.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tnt-buddy-list-active-personality
Personality used for tnt-buddy-list-active-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tnt-buddy-list-away-personality
Personality used for tnt-buddy-list-away-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tnt-buddy-list-idle-personality
Personality used for tnt-buddy-list-idle-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tnt-buddy-list-inactive-personality
Personality used for tnt-buddy-list-inactive-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tnt-buddy-list-pounce-personality
Personality used for tnt-buddy-list-pounce-face
This personality uses  (quote ursula) whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing (quote ursula)-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-tnt-my-name-personality
Personality used for tnt-my-name-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-url-template Options
@section emacspeak-url-template Options

Commentary:
It is often useful to have ``parameterized hot list entries''
i.e., hotlist entries  that are ``templates'' for the
actual URL.
The user provides values for the parameterized portions
of the URL e.g. the date.
See @xref{URL Templates}, for details on the URL templates
that are presently defined.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-url-template.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bookshare-user-id
Bookshare user Id.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-url-template-weather-city-state
Default city/state for weather forecasts
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-vm Options
@section emacspeak-vm Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-vm.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-cal2text
Executable that converts calendar invitations    on
  standard input to plain text.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-customize-mime-settings
Non-nil will cause Emacspeak to configure VM mime
settings to match what the author of Emacspeak uses.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-doc2text
Executable that converts MSWord documents on standard input to plain
text using wvText.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-headers-strip-octals
Specify whether non-ascii chars should be stripped when
  speaking email headers.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-pdf2text
Executable that converts PDF on standard input to plain
text using pdftotext.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-ppt2html
Executable that converts MSPPT documents on standard input to HTML
 using xlhtml.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-use-raman-settings
Should VM  use the customizations used by the author of Emacspeak.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-voice-lock-messages
Set this to T if you want messages automatically voice locked.
Note that some badly formed mime messages  cause trouble.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-vm-xls2html
Executable that converts MSXL documents on standard input to HTML
 using xlhtml.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-w3 Options
@section emacspeak-w3 Options

Commentary:
Ensure that speech support for W3 gets installed and
loaded correctly.
The emacs W3 browser comes with builtin support for
Emacspeak and ACSS

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-w3.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-base-uri-pronunciation
Custom pronunciation for base URIs in w3 buffers.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-charent-alist
Entities to unescape when treating badly escaped XML.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-cleanup-bogus-quotes
Clean up bogus Unicode chars for magic quotes.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-create-imenu-index
Create IMenu index by default.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-lwp-request
LWP Request command from perl LWP.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-lynx-program
Name of lynx executable
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-media-stream-suffixes
Suffixes to look for in detecting URLs that point to media
streams.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-most-recent-xpath-filter
Caches most recently used xpath filter.
Can be customized to set up initial default.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-punctuation-mode
Pronunciation mode to use for W3 buffers.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-tidy-html
Tidy HTML before rendering.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-tidy-options
Options to pass to tidy program
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-tidy-program
Name of tidy executable
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-xsl-keep-result
Set to a non-empty string  if you want the buffer containing the transformed HTML
source to be preserved.
Value of this variable if non-empty will be used as a name for the
source buffer.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-xsl-p
T means we apply XSL transformation before displaying
HTML.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3-xsl-transform
Specifies transform to use before displaying a page.
Nil means no transform is used. 
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-w3m Options
@section emacspeak-w3m Options

Commentary:



Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-w3m.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-speak-titles-on-switch
Speak the document title when switching between w3m buffers.
If non-nil, switching between w3m buffers will speak the title 
instead of the modeline.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-websearch Options
@section emacspeak-websearch Options

Commentary:
This module provides utility functions for searching the WWW

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-websearch.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-websearch-emapspeak-my-location
Specifies location near we look by default.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-websearch-google-number-of-results
Number of results to return from google search.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-websearch-google-options
Additional options to pass to Google e.g. &xx=yy...
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-websearch-personal-portfolio
Set this to the stock tickers you want to check by
default.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-wizards Options
@section emacspeak-wizards Options

Commentary:
Contains various wizards for the Emacspeak desktop.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-wizards.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-clipboard-file
File used to save Emacspeak clipboard.
The emacspeak clipboard provides a convenient mechanism for exchanging
information between different Emacs sessions.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-curl-cookie-store
Cookie store used by Curl.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-local-directory
Directory where we download the snapshot.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-cvs-local-directory-pattern
Pattern from which name of local download directory is build.
 %s is replaced by the project name.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-emergency-tts-server
TTS server to use in an emergency.
Set this to a TTS server that is known to work at all times.
If you are debugging another speech server and that server
gets wedged for some reason,
you can use command emacspeak-emergency-tts-restart
to get speech back using the reliable TTS server.
It's useful to bind the above command to a convenient key.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces-addresses
Command that displays address of  a specific interface.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-show-active-network-interfaces-command
Command that displays names of active network interfaces.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory
File holding telephone directory.
This is just a text file, and we use grep to search it.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-speak-telephone-directory-command
Command used to look up names in the telephone
directory.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ssh-tts-server
SSH TTS server to use by default.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-curl-program
Name of curl executable.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-dvi2txt-program
Program for converting dvi  to txt.
Set this to nil if you do not want to use the DVI wizard.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-find-switches-that-need-quoting
Find switches whose args need quoting.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-find-switches-widget
Widget to get find switch.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-links-program
Name of links executable.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-linux-howto-directory
Root  of Linux Howtos.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-lynx-program
Lynx executable.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-pdf-to-text-program
Command for running pdftotext.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-ppthtml-program
Program for converting PPT  to HTML.
Set this to nil if you do not want to use the PPTHTML wizard.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-quote-command
Command for pulling up detailed stock quotes.
this requires Perl module Finance::YahooQuote.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-quote-row-filter
Format used to filter rows.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-spot-words-extension
Default file extension  used when spotting words.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-tramp-locations
Tramp locations used by Emacspeak tramp wizard.
Locations added here via custom can be opened using command
emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location
bound to M-x emacspeak-wizards-tramp-open-location.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-vc-viewer-command
Command line for dumping out virtual console.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-vpn-end-command
Command that brings down a   VPN connection.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-vpn-start-command
Command that brings up a VPN connection.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-wizards-xlhtml-program
Program for converting XL to HTML.
Set this to nil if you do not want to use the XLHTML wizard.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-xml-shell Options
@section emacspeak-xml-shell Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-xml-shell.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-command
Executable that provides the XML browser shell.
Default is xmllint.
If you want an XML Shell on steroids get XSH and use emacs custom to
customize the default to be xsh.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-hooks
Start up hooks run after XML browser  process is started.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-options
Command-line options for XML browse command.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xml-shell-xslt
XSL transform to apply when displaying current node.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak-xslt Options
@section emacspeak-xslt Options

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak-xslt.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-keep-errors
If non-nil, xslt errors will be preserved in an errors buffer.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-nuke-null-char
If T null chars in the region will be nuked.
This is useful when handling bad HTML.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-options
Options passed to xsltproc.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-program
Name of XSLT transformation engine.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-xslt-use-wget-to-download
Set to T if you want to avoid URL downloader bugs in libxml2.
There is a bug that bites when using Yahoo Maps that wget can
work around.
@end defvar

@node emacspeak Options
@section emacspeak Options

Commentary:
The complete audio desktop.

Emacspeak extends Emacs to be a fully functional audio desktop.
This is the main emacspeak module.
It actually does very little:
It loads the various parts of the system.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  emacspeak.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-media-player
Default media player to use.
This is a Lisp function that takes a resource locator.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-play-emacspeak-startup-icon
If set to T, emacspeak plays its icon as it launches.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-startup-hook
Hook to run after starting emacspeak.
@end defvar

@node voice-setup Options
@section voice-setup Options

Commentary:
A voice is to audio as a font is to a visual display.
A personality is to audio as a face is to a visual display.

Voice-lock-mode is a minor mode that causes your comments to be
spoken in one personality, strings in another, reserved words in another,
documentation strings in another, and so on.

Comments will be spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality'.
Strings will be spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-string-personality'.
Doc strings will be spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-doc-string-personality'.
Function and variable names (in their defining forms) will be
 spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-function-name-personality'.
Reserved words will be spoken in `emacspeak-voice-lock-keyword-personality'.

To make the text you type be voiceified, use M-x voice-lock-mode.
When this minor mode is on, the voices of the current line are
updated with every insertion or deletion.

How faces map to voices: TTS engine specific modules e.g.,
dectalk-voices.el and outloud-voices.el define a standard set
of voice names.  This module maps standard "personality"
names to these pre-defined voices.  It does this via special
form def-voice-font which takes a personality name, a voice
name and a face name to set up the mapping between face and
personality, and personality and voice.
Newer Emacspeak modules should use voice-setup-add-map when
defining face->personality mappings.
Older code calls def-voice-font directly, but over time those
calls will be changed to the more succinct form provided by
voice-setup-add-map. For use from other moduels, also see
function voice-setup-map-face which is useful when mapping a
single face.
Both voice-setup-add-map and voice-setup-map-face call
special form def-voice-font.

Special form def-voice-font sets up the personality name to
be available via custom.  new voices can be defined using CSS
style specifications see special form defvoice Voices defined
via defvoice can be customized via custom see the
documentation for defvoice.

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  voice-setup.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} voice-animate-extra-settings
Adds extra animation  current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-animate-medium-settings
Adds medium animation  current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-animate-settings
Animates current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-annotate-settings
Indicate annotation.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-and-animate-settings
Bolden and animate  current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-extra-settings
Extra bolden current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-medium-settings
Add medium bolden current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-bolden-settings
Bolden current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-brighten-extra-settings
Extra brighten current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-brighten-medium-settings
Brighten current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-brighten-settings
Brighten current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-indent-settings
Indicate indentation .
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lighten-extra-settings
Add extra lighten current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lighten-medium-settings
Add medium lighten current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lighten-settings
Lighten current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-mode
Determines  if property personality results in text being
voicified.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-0-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 0 of ACSS structure to 8.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-1-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 1 of ACSS structure to 8.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-2-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 2 of ACSS structure to 8.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-lock-overlay-3-settings
Overlay voice that sets dimension 3 of ACSS structure to 8.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-monotone-medium-settings
Turns current voice into a medium monotone.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-monotone-settings
Turns current voice into a monotone and speaks all punctuations.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-punctuations-all-settings
Turns current voice into one that  speaks all
punctuations.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-punctuations-none-settings
Turns current voice into one that  speaks no punctuations.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-punctuations-some-settings
Turns current voice into one that  speaks some
punctuations.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-setup-sample-text
Sample text used  when displaying available voices.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-smoothen-extra-settings
Extra smoothen current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-smoothen-medium-settings
Add medium smoothen current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-smoothen-settings
Smoothen current voice.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} voice-womanize-1-settings
Apply first female voice.
@end defvar

Automatically generated documentation
for options defined in module  nil.
These options are customizable via Emacs' Custom interface.

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-Buffer-menu-buffer-voice
Personality used for Buffer-menu-buffer
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bold-italic-voice
Personality used for bold-italic
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-bold-voice
Personality used for bold
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-button-voice
Personality used for button
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-c-nonbreakable-space-personality
Personality used for c-nonbreakable-space-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-calendar-today-voice
Personality used for calendar-today
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-comint-highlight-input-voice
Personality used for comint-highlight-input
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-comint-highlight-prompt-voice
Personality used for comint-highlight-prompt
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-mouse-voice
Personality used for custom-button-mouse
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-pressed-unraised-voice
Personality used for custom-button-pressed-unraised
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-pressed-voice
Personality used for custom-button-pressed
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-unraised-voice
Personality used for custom-button-unraised
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-button-voice
Personality used for custom-button
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-changed-voice
Personality used for custom-changed
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-comment-personality
Personality used for custom-comment-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-comment-tag-personality
Personality used for custom-comment-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-comment-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-comment-tag
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-documentation-voice
Personality used for custom-documentation
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-face-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-face-tag
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-group-tag-1-voice
Personality used for custom-group-tag-1
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-group-tag-personality
Personality used for custom-group-tag-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-group-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-group-tag
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-invalid-voice
Personality used for custom-invalid
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-link-voice
Personality used for custom-link
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-modified-personality
Personality used for custom-modified-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-modified-voice
Personality used for custom-modified
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-rogue-voice
Personality used for custom-rogue
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-saved-voice
Personality used for custom-saved
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-set-voice
Personality used for custom-set
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-state-voice
Personality used for custom-state
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-variable-button-voice
Personality used for custom-variable-button
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-custom-variable-tag-voice
Personality used for custom-variable-tag
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-diary-personality
Personality used for diary-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-directory-voice
Personality used for dired-directory
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-flagged-voice
Personality used for dired-flagged
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-header-voice
Personality used for dired-header
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-ignored-voice
Personality used for dired-ignored
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-mark-voice
Personality used for dired-mark
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-marked-voice
Personality used for dired-marked
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-symlink-voice
Personality used for dired-symlink
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-dired-warning-voice
Personality used for dired-warning
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-discovered-after-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-discovered-after-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-discovered-before-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-discovered-before-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-discovered-in-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-discovered-in-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-f-block-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-f-block-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-gas-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-gas-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-group-number-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-group-number-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-header-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-header-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-liquid-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-liquid-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-p-block-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-p-block-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-period-number-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-period-number-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-s-block-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-s-block-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-solid-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-solid-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eperiodic-unknown-personality
Personality used for eperiodic-unknown-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-action-personality
Personality used for erc-action-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-bold-personality
Personality used for erc-bold-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-dangerous-host-personality
Personality used for erc-dangerous-host-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-direct-msg-personality
Personality used for erc-direct-msg-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-error-personality
Personality used for erc-error-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-input-personality
Personality used for erc-input-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-inverse-personality
Personality used for erc-inverse-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-keyword-personality
Personality used for erc-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-notice-personality
Personality used for erc-notice-face
This personality uses  (quote inaudible) whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing (quote inaudible)-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-pal-personality
Personality used for erc-pal-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-prompt-personality
Personality used for erc-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-erc-underline-personality
Personality used for erc-underline-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-archive-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-archive-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-archive-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-archive
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-backup-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-backup-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-backup-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-backup
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-clutter-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-clutter-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-clutter-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-clutter
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-directory-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-directory-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-directory-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-directory
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-executable-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-executable-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-executable-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-executable
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-missing-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-missing-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-missing-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-missing
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-product-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-product-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-product-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-product
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-readonly-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-readonly-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-readonly-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-readonly
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-special-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-special-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-special-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-special
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-symlink-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-symlink-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-symlink-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-symlink
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-unreadable-personality
Personality used for eshell-ls-unreadable-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-ls-unreadable-voice
Personality used for eshell-ls-unreadable
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-prompt-personality
Personality used for eshell-prompt-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-eshell-prompt-voice
Personality used for eshell-prompt
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-fixed-pitch-voice
Personality used for fixed-pitch
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-fixed-voice
Personality used for fixed
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-flyspell-incorrect-personality
Personality used for flyspell-incorrect-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-1-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-10-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-10
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-11-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-11
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-2-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-2
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-3-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-3
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-4-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-4
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-5-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-5
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-6-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-6
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-7-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-7
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-8-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-8
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-9-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-9
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-1-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-10-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-10
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-2-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-2
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-3-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-3
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-4-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-4
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-5-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-5
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-6-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-6
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-7-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-7
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-8-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-8
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-cite-face-9-voice
Personality used for gnus-cite-face-9
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-bold-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-bold
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-highlight-words-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-highlight-words
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-italic-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-italic
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-strikethru-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-strikethru
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-emphasis-underline-voice
Personality used for gnus-emphasis-underline
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-1-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-1-empty-face
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-1-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-1-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-1-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-1-face
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-1-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-1
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-2-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-2-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-2-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-2-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-2-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-2-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-2-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-2
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-3-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-3-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-3-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-3-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-3-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-3-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-3-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-3
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-low-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-low-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-low-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-low-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-low-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-low-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-mail-low-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-mail-low
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-1-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-1-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-1-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-1-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-1-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-1-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-1-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-1
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-2-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-2-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-2-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-2-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-2-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-2-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-2-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-2
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-3-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-3-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-3-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-3-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-3-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-3-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-3-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-3
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-4-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-4-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-4-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-4-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-4-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-4-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-4-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-4
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-5-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-5-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-5-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-5-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-5-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-5-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-5-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-5
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-6-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-6-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-6-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-6-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-6-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-6-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-6-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-6
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-low-empty-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-low-empty-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-low-empty-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-low-empty
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-low-personality
Personality used for gnus-group-news-low-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-group-news-low-voice
Personality used for gnus-group-news-low
This personality uses  default whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing default-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-content-personality
Personality used for gnus-header-content-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-content-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-content
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-from-personality
Personality used for gnus-header-from-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-from-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-from
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-name-personality
Personality used for gnus-header-name-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-name-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-name
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-newsgroups-personality
Personality used for gnus-header-newsgroups-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-newsgroups-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-newsgroups
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-subject-personality
Personality used for gnus-header-subject-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-header-subject-voice
Personality used for gnus-header-subject
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-agent-personality
Personality used for gnus-server-agent-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-agent-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-agent
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-closed-personality
Personality used for gnus-server-closed-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-closed-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-closed
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-denied-personality
Personality used for gnus-server-denied-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-denied-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-denied
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-offline-personality
Personality used for gnus-server-offline-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-offline-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-offline
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-opened-personality
Personality used for gnus-server-opened-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-server-opened-voice
Personality used for gnus-server-opened
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-signature-personality
Personality used for gnus-signature-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-signature-voice
Personality used for gnus-signature
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-cancelled-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-cancelled-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-cancelled-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-cancelled
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-ancient-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-ancient-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-ancient-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-ancient
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-read-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-read-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-read-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-read
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-ticked-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-ticked-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-ticked-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-ticked
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-undownloaded-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-undownloaded-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-undownloadedvoice-bolden-and-animate-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-undownloadedvoice-bolden-and-animate
This personality uses  nil whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing nil-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-unread-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-unread-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-high-unread-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-high-unread
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-ancient-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-ancient-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-ancient-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-ancient
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-read-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-read-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-read-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-read
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-ticked-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-ticked-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-ticked-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-ticked
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-undownloaded-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-undownloaded-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-undownloaded-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-undownloaded
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-unread-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-unread-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-low-unread-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-low-unread
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-ancient-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-ancient-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-ancient-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-ancient
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-read-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-read-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-read-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-read
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-ticked-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-ticked-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-ticked-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-ticked
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-undownloaded-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-undownloaded-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-normal-undownloaded-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-normal-undownloaded
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-selected-personality
Personality used for gnus-summary-selected-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-gnus-summary-selected-voice
Personality used for gnus-summary-selected
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-help-argument-name-voice
Personality used for help-argument-name
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-highlight-voice
Personality used for highlight
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-holiday-personality
Personality used for holiday-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-header-node-voice
Personality used for info-header-node
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-header-xref-voice
Personality used for info-header-xref
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-menu-5-voice
Personality used for info-menu-5
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-menu-header-voice
Personality used for info-menu-header
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-menu-star-voice
Personality used for info-menu-star
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-node-voice
Personality used for info-node
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-1-voice
Personality used for info-title-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-2-voice
Personality used for info-title-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-3-voice
Personality used for info-title-3
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-title-4-voice
Personality used for info-title-4
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-xref-visited-voice
Personality used for info-xref-visited
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-info-xref-voice
Personality used for info-xref
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-ispell-highlight-personality
Personality used for ispell-highlight-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-italic-voice
Personality used for italic
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-match-voice
Personality used for match
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-cited-text-personality
Personality used for message-cited-text-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-cited-text-voice
Personality used for message-cited-text
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-cc-personality
Personality used for message-header-cc-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-cc-voice
Personality used for message-header-cc
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-name-personality
Personality used for message-header-name-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-name-voice
Personality used for message-header-name
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-newsgroups-personality
Personality used for message-header-newsgroups-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-newsgroups-voice
Personality used for message-header-newsgroups
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-other-personality
Personality used for message-header-other-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-other-voice
Personality used for message-header-other
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-subject-personality
Personality used for message-header-subject-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-subject-voice
Personality used for message-header-subject
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-to-personality
Personality used for message-header-to-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-to-voice
Personality used for message-header-to
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-xheader-personality
Personality used for message-header-xheader-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-header-xheader-voice
Personality used for message-header-xheader
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-mml-personality
Personality used for message-mml-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-mml-voice
Personality used for message-mml
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-separator-personality
Personality used for message-separator-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-message-separator-voice
Personality used for message-separator
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-1-voice
Personality used for outline-1
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-2-voice
Personality used for outline-2
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-3-voice
Personality used for outline-3
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-4-voice
Personality used for outline-4
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-5-voice
Personality used for outline-5
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-outline-6-voice
Personality used for outline-6
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-region-voice
Personality used for region
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-term-underline-voice
Personality used for term-underline
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-underline-voice
Personality used for underline
This personality uses  voice-lighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-bold-personality
Personality used for font-latex-bold-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-doctex-documentation-personality
Personality used for font-latex-doctex-documentation-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-doctex-preprocessor-personality
Personality used for font-latex-doctex-preprocessor-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-italic-personality
Personality used for font-latex-italic-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-math-personality
Personality used for font-latex-math-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-sedate-personality
Personality used for font-latex-sedate-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-string-personality
Personality used for font-latex-string-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-subscript-personality
Personality used for font-latex-subscript-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-superscript-personality
Personality used for font-latex-superscript-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-title-1-personality
Personality used for font-latex-title-1-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-title-2-personality
Personality used for font-latex-title-2-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-title-3-personality
Personality used for font-latex-title-3-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-title-4-personality
Personality used for font-latex-title-4-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-verbatim-personality
Personality used for font-latex-verbatim-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-latex-warning-personality
Personality used for font-latex-warning-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-builtin-personality
Personality used for font-lock-builtin-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-delimiter-personality
Personality used for font-lock-comment-delimiter-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-comment-personality
Personality used for font-lock-comment-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-constant-personality
Personality used for font-lock-constant-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-doc-personality
Personality used for font-lock-doc-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-doc-string-personality
Personality used for font-lock-doc-string-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-function-name-personality
Personality used for font-lock-function-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-keyword-personality
Personality used for font-lock-keyword-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-negation-char-personality
Personality used for font-lock-negation-char-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-preprocessor-personality
Personality used for font-lock-preprocessor-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-reference-personality
Personality used for font-lock-reference-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-regexp-grouping-backslash
Personality used for font-lock-regexp-grouping-backslash
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-regexp-grouping-construct
Personality used for font-lock-regexp-grouping-construct
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-string-personality
Personality used for font-lock-string-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-type-personality
Personality used for font-lock-type-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-variable-name-personality
Personality used for font-lock-variable-name-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-voice-lock-warning-personality
Personality used for font-lock-warning-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-and-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-and-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-anchor-personality
Personality used for w3m-anchor-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-arrived-anchor-personality
Personality used for w3m-arrived-anchor-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-bold-personality
Personality used for w3m-bold-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-medium whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-medium-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-current-anchor-personality
Personality used for w3m-current-anchor-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-form-button-personality
Personality used for w3m-form-button-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-form-button-pressed-personality
Personality used for w3m-form-button-pressed-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-form-personality
Personality used for w3m-form-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-header-line-location-content-personality
Personality used for w3m-header-line-location-content-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-header-line-location-title-personality
Personality used for w3m-header-line-location-title-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-history-current-url-personality
Personality used for w3m-history-current-url-face
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-image-personality
Personality used for w3m-image-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-insert-personality
Personality used for w3m-insert-face
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-italic-personality
Personality used for w3m-italic-face
This personality uses  voice-animate whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-strike-through-personality
Personality used for w3m-strike-through-face
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-tab-selected-personality
Personality used for w3m-tab-selected-face
This personality uses  voice-animate-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-animate-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-tab-unselected-personality
Personality used for w3m-tab-unselected-face
This personality uses  voice-monotone whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-monotone-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-w3m-underline-personality
Personality used for w3m-underline-face
This personality uses  voice-brighten-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-brighten-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-button-pressed-voice
Personality used for widget-button-pressed
This personality uses  voice-bolden-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-button-voice
Personality used for widget-button
This personality uses  voice-bolden whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-bolden-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-documentation-voice
Personality used for widget-documentation
This personality uses  voice-smoothen-extra whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-extra-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-field-voice
Personality used for widget-field
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-inactive-voice
Personality used for widget-inactive
This personality uses  voice-lighten whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-lighten-settings.
@end defvar

@defvar {User Option} emacspeak-widget-single-line-field-voice
Personality used for widget-single-line-field
This personality uses  voice-smoothen whose  effect can be changed globally by customizing voice-smoothen-settings.
@end defvar

