@c $Id$
@node Installation
@chapter Installation Instructions

This chapter gives brief and detailed installation instructions
for configuring, installing and starting Emacspeak.

@menu
* Obtaining Emacspeak::        Obtaining Emacspeak.
* Quick Installation::          Default installation  and startup.
* Configuring and Installing Emacspeak::  Configuring and Installing Emacspeak 
                                         and its associated files
@end menu



@node Obtaining Emacspeak
@section Obtaining Emacspeak

Emacspeak is available on the Internet at:
@table @b
@item WWW
 http://emacspeak.sf.net
@item WWW
 http://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/raman/emacspeak/
 @item FTP
   ftp://ftp.cs.cornell.edu/pub/raman/emacspeak
@item Mail List
emacspeak@@cs.vassar.edu
@item List Request
emacspeak-request@@cs.vassar.edu
@end table

 The Emacspeak mailing list is maintained by Greg E. Priest-Dorman.  If you are using Emacspeak,
you can join the list by sending mail to
the request address.

@node Quick Installation
@section Quick Installation


Here are the quick installation instructions.
See the next section for detailed installation instructions.


Prepackaged RPM files are available on the Emacspeak site.
Packages for other Linux distributions such as Debian typically become
available on the WWW a few days after a new version is released.
The instructions below are for building and installing Emacspeak from
the source distribution.

@itemize @bullet
@item
 Type @samp{make config} to configure the sources for your site.
@item
 Type @samp{make} to compile the files.
@item Install the system by typing 
@samp{make install}
@item
 Run it by doing one of:
@itemize @bullet
@item @samp{emacspeak}
  
@item
Add the line
@example
(load-file "<emacspeak-dir>/lisp/emacspeak-setup.el")
@end example
to the top of your .emacs file.
@item
 

@end itemize
In the above, @code{<emacspeak-dir>} refers to the directory where you unpacked
the sources. 
@end  itemize


@node Configuring and Installing Emacspeak
@section Configuring and Installing Emacspeak

Note: You need a current version of GNU Emacs 
  for using newer versions of Emacspeak.

The speech server for the Dectalk is written in TclX.  (For example, see the
source file @file{dtk-exp}).  
@itemize @bullet 
@item Decide where you want the Emacspeak elisp files.  Most Unix packages are
unpacked and compiled in one directory, and then the executable,
documentation, and data files are installed in the appropriate system
directories.  


Once you have decided on the appropriate directory, make it if necessary
and unpack the distribution @code{.tar} file there. 

@item Look through the introductory section of the Makefile to see if you need
to edit it for your site.
@item Check the directory prefix for installation.  The default is @file{/usr/local},
so @file{.info} files go to @file{/usr/local/info} and the executable
file goes to @file{/usr/local/bin}.  To change this, edit the line
defining @var{PREFIX}.
@end itemize

Configure the source files by typing @samp{make config}.  At this point
you can check that the  speech server is correctly configured by typing
@example
tcl dtk-exp
@end example
@noindent (assuming you are using the Dectalk Express).  You should hear the
Dectalk speak and get a TCL prompt if everything is okay.

If you're feeling paranoid, you can perform a couple of additional tests
at this point. Execute the following commands in the running tcl session
you just started above.  (Most users will not need to do this; it is a
sanity check and is useful in tracking problems, especially if you find
emacspeak beginning to talk and then immediately fall silent.)

@itemize @bullet
@item
@example
q "this is a test."
d
@end example

 You should hear the Dectalk speak  the text.
@item @samp{s}
 The above command stops speech.
 You should see a TCL prompt when you execute it.
  If things appear to hang when you execute @samp{s}
  i.e. you don't see a TCL prompt
@enumerate 
@item The serial cable connecting your speech device is flaky
@item Your serial port is flaky
@item The stty settings on the port are incorrect for your system
@end enumerate
 
In the case of incorrect stty settings please report the problem.  The
following UNIX command can be used to report the stty settings:
@example
stty -a < serial_port
@end example

@end itemize

Quit this TCL
session by typing @kbd{C-D}.

Next, compile the elisp files by typing 
@example
make emacspeak
@end example
Finally, install the documentation and executable files by typing 
@example
make PREFIX=<prefix> install 
@end example

The speech server program and/or output port can also be specified at run time by 
setting the shell environment variables @var{DTK_PROGRAM} and @var{DTK_PORT}.
Examples: If using @code{csh} or @code{tcsh} 
@example
setenv DTK_PROGRAM "dtk-exp"
@end example
@noindent if using @code{sh} or @code{bash}
@example
DTK_PROGRAM=dtk-exp
export DTK_PROGRAM
@end example
@noindent Similarly,
@example
DTK_PORT=/dev/ttyS0
@end example

You can always set these variables from a running Emacs session by
executing
the Emacs setenv command.

